The Personal Equation 
ACT I 
SCENE--Main room of the headquarters of the International Workers Union in Hoboken--a large bare room with white-washed walls. In the rear, two windows looking out on a dingy back street. On the wall between the windows, a large framed engraving of a naked woman with a liberty cap on her head, leaning back against the two upright beams of a guillotine. In the left hand corner, a desk with chair. In the middle of left wall, a door opening into hall. In right corner, a small table with typewriter on it. In the middle of left wall, a door opening into hall. In the middle of right wall, another door. In the center of room, a long table with four or five straight-backed chairs placed around it. On the table, newspapers, periodicals, stacks of pamphlets, etc. Flooring of coarse, uncovered boards. Framed cartoons, mostly in color, from Jugend, Simplissimus, etc., are hung here and there on the walls. 
It is evening and already dark. Two gas lights of the Welsbach type, fixed on the tarnished chandelier which hangs over the table, throw a cold white light about the room, revealing every detail of its bare ugliness. 
Olga stands at one end of the table reading a newspaper. She is very dark; strong, fine features; large spirited black eyes, slender, supple figure. Enwright sits on the chair nearest her. He is thin, round-shouldered, middle-aged, clean-shaven, wears glasses.
(languidly) What have our dear friends, the Socialists, to say about us oday? Are we luring their honest working man to his ruin; are we planting the insidious seeds of anarchy in the unsuspecting bosoms of their voters, or, or--what? 
Bah, the same old stuff! What's the use of repeating it? (her eyes flashing) Oh, these Socialists! How I loathe their eternal platitudes, their milk-and-water radicalism, their cut-and-dried sermons for humble voters! As if to vote were not also to acquiesce in the present order of things, to become a cog in the machine which grinds the voter himself to bits! Revolution by act of Congress! The dolts! (as Enwright smiles amusedly and glances at his watch) What time is it? 
Nearly eight. Are you waiting for Tom, or Hartmann? 
Both. Tom ought to be here now. Hartmann sent word he wanted to see us here tonight on something important. 
Something to do with the talked-of strike of the dock-laborers, seamen and firemen, I expect. I hear there's a contemplated move in that direction. 
Ah, so that's it. I couldn't imagine what it could be. 
(after a pause) May I ask an impertinent question, Olga? Do you think Tom's zeal in our activities is inspired by deep inward conviction, or--I'll be plain--do you think it's merely an outcropping of his love for you? 
(indignantly) How can you imagine such a thing? You know Tom. You know how hard he has worked with us. 
It's just a feeling I have. Somehow he doesn't seem to fit in. He's a fine intelligent fellow and all that, but he isn't our type, now is he? 
He was interested in our movement and used to come to our meetings before I ever met him. 
Curiosity and a craving for adventure might account for that. He probably wanted to see a real bomb thrown. 
(angrily) Oh! (then coldly) You're wrong and you know it. 
Hm, am I? Well, I shouldn't have asked you. You love him. What do you know of the real man? Now, don't fly into a rage. Tom is my good friend, and no matter what he's inspired by, a valuable addition to our ranks. I must go and see if those pamphlets have come. (He goes to door on right. Tom enters just as Enwright is closing door. Enwright shouts: "Hello, Tom" and shuts door behind him. Olga runs to Tom and they embrace and kiss each other passionately.) 
(Tom is a husky six-footer in his early twenties, large intelligent eyes, handsome in a rough, manly, strong featured way. His manner is one of boyishly naive enthusiasm with a certain note of defiance creeping in as if he were fighting an inward embarrassment and was determined to brave it down.)
I thought you'd never get here and yet you're on time. (They laugh and come over and sit down--Olga in chair at end of the table, Tom on edge of the table beside her.) 
Hartmann showed up yet?
Not yet. 
Wonder what he wants us for. 
It's something to do with a coming strike of dock-laborers and firemen, Enwright thinks. 
Anything in the paper about it? 
Not much; they're trying to hush it up. (She picks up a paper.) But there's quite an editorial here about you and me and other dangerous inciters to riot-you know-for our speeches in Union Square last Saturday. Listen to this. He's referring to what I said against war with Mexico. (reads) "A crack-brained young female, Olga something-or-other, arose to howl invective against the government which protects her, against all sense of decency and national honor"--and so forth. Here again: "Over-strung lady anarchists of the Olga type are a constant and dangerous menace to society and should be confined in some asylum for the criminal-insane." 
(fiercely) Damn him! (puts his arm protectingly around Olga) 
(resisting this protective attitude) It seems I'm a dangerous anarchist inciting to murder because I call upon men not to shoot their brother men for a fetish of red, white and blue, a mockery called patriotism. (She laughs angrily.) 
The cowardly hound! 
(throwing the paper on the floor scornfully) I won't read what he said about you--something about your looking like a broken-down college boy whom a desire for cheap notoriety had led into the International Workers. (fiercely) Liar! 
(with a smile) Well, I'm a college boy if that one year I wasted in college makes me one. (slowly) I don't care what they say about me; but, damn him, he ought to have the manhood not to sling his muddy ink at a woman. 
What an old-fashioned idea! Aren't we equals when we fight for liberty--regardless of sex? 
(a bit sheepishly) I know it's a mistaken notion--logically. I can feel that way about all the others--the other women who are working with us, I mean-but where you are concerned, I can't. It's different, somehow. (slowly) You see--I love you, Olga. 
(calmly) And I love you, Tom; but what difference does that make? Are we not comrades fighting in the ranks--before everything? Don't you put that before our own miserable little egos? 
Before my own little miserable ego, yes; but not before yours. (as Olga looks at him reproachfully) I can't help it. Our love comes first. (moodily) That's why calumnies against you like the one in that paper drive me wild. I'd like to take that editor and twist his measly neck for him. 
(frowning at his attitude of protection) I'm used to such things, I'm strong enough to bear them. You ought to know that. 
I do, Olga. Good Lord, you're strong enough to bear anything. I'm not, that's the thing. I'm not strong enough to bear the insults against you, and by God, I never will be. 
(rather impatiently) Don't take them so seriously. 
I can't help it--especially the things they say against you--(he hesitates) on account of me. 
On account of you? What do you mean? 
On account of--our relationship. 
You mean that stupid Philistines sneer at me because I'm living with you and we're not married? 
Yes. 
(indifferently) Very well; let them. They do not enter into my world. I expect their denunciations and I revel in them. 
But don't you see I can't help blaming myself-
(impatiently) Blame yourself for what? Because when I knew I loved you I gave myself to you freely and openly? It seems to me the responsibility is mine. Don't be foolishly sentimental. 
(doggedly) Still, I wish you--(He hesitates--blurting it out) Marry me. 
(frowning) We've argued this out before. 
(lamely) I thought you might have reconsidered. 
(vehemently) I haven't done so, and I won't do so. I tell you I won't marry you or anyone. (seeing the hurt look on Tom's face--contritely) You dear old Tom, you, don't you know I love you with all the love I have in me? Isn't that enough? 
Yes, of course, but--
Listen: Am I not all to you that a wife could be? 
Yes. 
You don't believe in marriage as an institution, do you? You know that the voluntary union of two people is something which concerns them and them alone. You don't believe that the sanction of the law we hate or a religion we despise could make our relationship any holier, do you? 
No. 
Then why speak of marriage? 
(doggedly) It's just this Olga. Though we know it is all wrong, we've got to face the facts as they are. Marriage is a fact. I agree with you it ought to be abolished. But what are we to do? It won't be destroyed in our time in spite of all our efforts and we're living now, not in the future. We've got to make some concessions to society in order to be free to do our work. It's foolish to waste time butting one's head against a stone wall. 
(getting up and walking up and dawn--vehemently) What are we beside the ideal we fight for? We cannot change conditions in our lives, perhaps, but we can make our lives a living protest against those conditions. 
I don't want you to be a martyr--on my account. 
It's not on your account. I'm fighting for an ideal. You're only the man I love. Oh, can't you see? Some of us must be pioneers, some of us must prove by our lives that the dream we're striving for can be realized. (passionately) We love each other. Our love is a fine love, freed from all the commonplaces of marriage. Why would you change it. There's no feeling of enforced servitude on my part. There can be no complacent sense of ownership on yours. (with smiling irony) Perhaps that's what you regret? 
(indignantly) Olga! 
Do you want a signed certificate proving I am yours--like a house and lot? 
(hurt) Don't, Olga! (impatiently) You don't understand.
I understand this: To compromise is to acknowledge defeat. (more and more determinedly) No, we'll live as we believe! And let all the self-righteous jackasses go to the devil! 
You'll have to pay; I won't. It's the devilish unfairness which drives me wild. I want you to be happy, that's all. 
Then let me fight for my own soul with my own life. That's my happiness. And don't adopt that protective masculine attitude. I'm better able to bear my share of the burden than you are. It's in my blood--the exultation of the fight against tyranny. I was born with it. My father was exiled from his country for living and speaking what he thought; and I shall preserve his heritage in this country where I was born. It's harder for you, Tom, with years of conventional prudery behind you. 
(shaking his head) You haven't considered the most important reason for my proposal. (slowly) Supposing we should have children? Would it be fair to them? 
(passionately) We'll never have children. No, no, anything but that! I would go through anything, kill myself rather than have that happen! 
Olga! 
No. To me the birth of a child is a horrible tragedy. To bring a helpless little one into a world of drudgery and unhappiness, to force upon it a mouldy crust of life--what heartlessness and. needless cruelty! There are much too many of us here already. No; I will wait until life becomes a gift and not a punishment before I bestow it upon a child of mine. I will offer no children to Moloch as sacrifices. (Tom stares at the floor but does not answer--a pause.) Make me a better world, O Husband-Man, and I'll be proud and not ashamed to bear children. 
(frowning) I was only asking you to consider the possibility--
(fiercely) There's no possibility! There never will be a possibility I tell you, I'd die first! 
(hopelessly) Let's drop the subject, then. 
(coming over to kiss him) I love you, Tom; and there's only one way to be true to you and to myself at the same time, and that's our present comradeship.
(giving in--tenderly) All right, as long as you are happy. 
I am! I am! (Enwright enters from door on right with a pile of pamphlets in under his arm.) 
What are you, pray? (comes over to them) 
Happy. 
Why not--with youth and love and (with a smile) inexperience. (sets pamphlets on table) Hartmann hasn't come yet? He's late as usual. 
You think he wants to see us about the seamen and firemen's strike? 
Yes, I imagine so--can't think what else it could be. 
They're talking of nothing else down at the office. (with sudden recollection--laughing) Oh, I'd forgotten to tell you the tragic news, Olga. I've lost my job. 
(smiling) Really? 
Yes, I'm bounced. No longer is your co-revolutionist assistant cashier of the Ocean Steamship Co. No longer is he a wage-slave. 
When did all this happen? 
This evening. You know those pamphlets Hartmann gave me to distribute among the crew of the San Francisco when she arrived from Liverpool? 
Yes. 
Well, in spite of the fact that my revered old man is, as I've told you, second engineer of the San Francisco, I managed to get rid of every single one of them without, as I thought, getting caught at it. I was wrong. Some coward must have reported me, for the manager called me into his office tonight at closing time--and fired me. 
What did he have to say? 
Gave me a silly sermon for the good of my soul: told me of my evil ways and so forth. Said he hated to discharge the son of one of the company's oldest and most faithful employees--he might just as well have said servants--but my outrageous conduct made it necessary, as I must see for myself. Stirring up mutiny among the crew of the Company's largest and finest ship! Oh, he's a smooth party, that manager. Talked to me in a regular it-hurts-me-more-than-it-does-you way. Damn his nerve. 
Has your father heard the news yet? 
(frowning) Haven't seen him except for a moment at the office since the San Francisco docked. I promised I'd go up home for dinner tonight but I can't make it now. I suppose I'll have to go up later, and break the bad news to him then. 
What'll he say? 
(shrugging his shoulders) Go off into a nervous spasm of fear the Company will hold it against him for having such a son. 
Is he as bad as that? 
Bad? No, nothing as alive as the word bad. Weak is a better term. You'd have to know him to understand what I mean. 
Tell me about him. I'm interested. We've been together for nearly half a year now and you've hardly ever mentioned him except to say that he was second-engineer on the San Francisco. 
There's nothing much about him to tell except that. He's a common type, more's the pity. No backbone, no will power, no individuality, nothing. Just a poor servile creature living in constant fear of losing his job. You know the kind of man I mean. (They nod.) He's been a second engineer on the boats of the Ocean Steamship company ever since I can remember. That fact gives you a glimpse into his character. He really knows marine engines from a to z--that's the strange part of it. Thirty years in the same little rut--and contented! Good God, think of it! They've never promoted him because he's never had the courage to demand it. They've taken him at his own valuation. 
But surely there must be some positive side to his character. 
Oh, he's got a positive love for his engines, for his ship, and even for the rotten old Ocean Company itself. I remember he actually cried--real tears--when he was transferred from the old ship to the San Francisco--said he hated to leave the old engines he was used to. His life is bound up in just that one thing--marine engines. He'll talk to anyone who'll listen for hours on that subject. He knows nothing else. (with a groan) I think I was lulled to sleep in my cradle with a triple-expansion, twin-screw lullaby. 
(with a smile) But how do you two ever get along together? 
We don't. He's too afraid of me to have any affection for me. Cringes before me as abjectly as if I were his chief engineer. It's sickening but I guess it's just as well. I've none of that feeling for him we're supposed to have for our parents. How could I? He stands for everything I hate. (Hartmann enters from the door on left. He is an undersized man in his late forties, dressed in black, white shirt with soft collar, flowing black Windsor tie. His head is massive, too large for his body, with long black hair brushed straight back from his broad forehead. His large dark eyes peer near-sightedly from behind a pair of thick-rimmed spectacles. His voice is low and musical. He continually strokes his mustache and imperial with thin nervous bands.) 
Ah you are already here. I am late, nicht war? Ach, such a talk we've been having. Phew! I could not make my exit. (He comes over to the table and sits down, after patting Olga affectionately on the back.) 
Same old subject, I suppose-Colorado? 
Nein, nein, we did not Colorado mention, this evening. It was of something far more important we spoke; but have you not the evening papers read? 
Haven't seen one. 
What is it, Hartmann? 
(shaking his head slowly) It may be nothing or it may be much. I am wrong to have such fear but there is in me a premonition, a dread unspeakable. I seem to see coming a disaster to us and to our hopes. (as the others show signs of impatience) War, I am speaking of--war which it is rumored, not without foundation, will soon break out. 
Nothing new in that. They've been writing up war with Mexico for months. 
Nein, I mean not Mexico, or this country--yet. That, in truth, would be horrible enough, but this, that I mean, is more terrible a thousand times. It will all the nations involve (nodding his head) over there--in Europe. Too long have the jealous dogs growled over their bones. This time, I fear, they will fight. If they do--(he makes a hopeless gesture)--it will be the smash-up, le debacle. And our cause will most of all suffer. The revolution will be fifty years put back. 
( jumping to her feet impulsively) Then now is the time for us to show what we can do. We're strongly organized over there. The socialists--surely their millions will fight shoulder to shoulder with us on this issue. We'll declare the general strike if they declare war. We'll defy them to make war when production ceases. Let every working man in those nations refuse to work, refuse to bear arms, and there will be no war. (enthusiastically) Think of what it would mean--that strike! No electricity, no cars, no trains, no steamers, the factories dark and deserted, no newspapers, no wireless, nothing. The whole world of workers on a holiday. Think of how foolish those kings and emperors, those cabinets and parliaments would look when they found no one to fight for them, when they realized if they wanted war, they would have to fight themselves. 
(shaking his head--with a sad smile) The general strike is a solution possible in fifty years, perhaps. Now, no. All their lives the comrades shall proclaim it, fight for it--and gradually the workers will their stupid patriotism unlearn, will feel their power and take what is theirs. But now--how is it possible? They have not yet outgrown their silly awe when a stained rag on the end of a stick is waved over their heads. (solemnly) And that is why I am afraid--that they are yet too ignorant, these workers; that at the first blare of a band, the first call to fatherland or motherland or some such sentimental phantom, they will all our teachings forget. Time, time is necessary for our ideas to grow into the hearts of men. Now they are in his brain only. The emotional crisis blots them out. We must the hearts of mankind touch--for it is what is in his heart he fights and dies for, and his brain is as nothing, that foolish animal. Yes, we must reach his heart, nicht war? And that time is not yet. 
(after a pause--cheerfully) Well, the war hasn't started yet, and I'll be willing to bet it'll be like this Mexican business of ours. Much talking, much writing, much patriotic gush--and that's all. They go through the same thing in Europe every few years, don't they? 
(shaking his head--slowly) But this time--(throwing off his depression) Ach well, it is on the lap of the Gods. Yet I would not see millions of madmen butchering each other for (with an expressive wave of his hand) wheels in the head. (a pause) The soul of man is an uninhabited house haunted by the ghosts of old ideals. And man in those ghosts still believes! He so slowly unlearns, or understands, or loves what is true and beautiful, the stupid animal! (with a sardonic laugh) And he dreams he is God's masterpiece, wie, was? Ha-ha. And yet God is his masterpiece--that is truth. (He chuckles to himself. ) 
(slowly) Why not encourage war? It's the great purgative. It destroys the unenlightened. Let them fight until nothing but weaklings are left--and we others who refused to fight. Then we'll come into our own. We'll take what we want. Then we can start life anew with a new generation, a new art, a new ideal. Therefore vive la guerre! 
(amused) There is much in what you say--if we could those armies persuade to fight until annihilated. Unhappily there remains always so many still in uniform. 
And the women remain. How would they be remodeled into your new world? 
The civilized woman has long been living beyond her mental means. She will be only too glad to find a good excuse to throw aside her pretence of equality with man to return to polygamy. Her pose was interesting to her when it was new. Now it bores her. The constant strain of keeping up mental appearances, of having a soul,--
(with a disdainful toss of her head) When you once start, Enwright, you're impossible. 
(in same thoughtful tone--as if he had not heard her) At the end of my supposititious war of manly extermination there will be ten or twenty womanly women for every unmanly man who has refused to die on the field of honor. Yet breeding must go on. The women, above all, will demand it. The new race must be created in order to enjoy the new freedom. What will be the result?
(at first irritably--finally breaking into a laugh) Hartmann, please tell him to shut up; or, at least, tell us the reason you wanted to see Tom and me, and let us make our escape. Enwright has found a pretty little strange idea. He's going to play with it, cuddle it, turn it over and over to see what's inside--and I refuse to waste an evening listening to him. 
I'm serious, Olga. All that might very well happen. (taking hat from table) You people want to talk, and so do I, so I better leave in search of an audience. 
Ach no, Enwright, sit down. It is necessary also that you know what is to be done, and to have your opinion of our plan. 
That's different; if I can be of any use--
(looking at his watch) Is it going to take long, Hartmann? 
Nein, my boy, a few moments only. You must go? This is very important that you should at once know the facts and to a decision come. 
I promised to run up and see my father tonight. He sails in a day or so and I won't have another chance. (impatiently) Damned bore! (sitting down at table) Well, let him wait. 
Attention, then. (All assume attitudes of tense expectation. Tom closes his hand over one of Olga's on the table but she releases it with a frown at his childishness. Hartmann commences slowly.) You have rumors heard, no?, of a strike, a strike which would be truly international, among the seamen and firemen of all ocean steamships, and of all the dock laborers? 
I was saying I thought that was what you had in mind. 
What you do not know is that this strike is hanging fire; it hesitates. There is needed a push to start it on its way. It is for us of the International to strike a blow, to give courage to those wavering ones. This we have decided to do. (They nod in assent.) You know the Ocean Steamship Company? 
(smiling) I have made its acquaintance. 
Ach, it is there you work, nicht war? For the moment I had forgotten.
(with emphasis) It was there I worked. 
(puzzled) Was? 
I was fired-for distributing pamphlets. 
SO. So much the better. You are free to undertake--(he raises his brows with a questioning look) anything? 
(steadily) Anything! Anything you think would help. 
I need not to ask you, Olga. 
(quietly) Anything. Go on. 
And now before I go farther I must a question ask. (to Tom) Did you not tell me once that you had worked as a stoker, fireman, on an ocean steamer. 
Yes, two summers ago. Did it for a stunt more than anything else. (with an abashed smile) I had no serious conception of anything in those days. I and a pal of mine made the round trip. (boyishly) I tell you, though, it opened my eyes to conditions I had never dreamt of. It made me think--seeing the contrast between us grimy stokers and the first cabin people lolling in their deck-chairs. 
It was on one of the Ocean Company's boats you made the trip, wasn't it, Tom? 
Yes. 
(With an air of satisfaction) Then, you know all the ropes, no? You would make no blunders which would attract attention should you ever again as fireman work? 
I guess not. It was drilled into me hard enough. 
That is good, very good. I told them, the others, that you were the exact one for it. 
I don't see what shipping as stoker--
It is just that you must do if you would help us. 
(beginning to understand) Ah. 
And I? 
A moment and you will clearly understand. (slowly) The unions on both sides of the ocean were all in favor of this strike. It was to be in bitterness waged to the end. There was to be no compromise. But now the unions are afraid, they seek to waste time doing nothing. The Steamship Companies fear this strike. They are endeavoring before its birth to crush it, to buy off the union leaders so no strike will be declared. 
Are you sure of this--that the union leaders are dickering with the Companies? 
Very sure. They have a traitor among them who is true to us. He has written us everything from Liver-pool, where, it was intended, the strike should break out first. 
Do you mean Whitely? 
Yes, Whitely--the one strong soul among them over there. (He takes a letter from his pocket and hands it to Olga.) Here is a letter to Whitely, Olga. You must to him present it the moment you reach Liverpool. (Olga nods.) 
But--I don't see--
It is time for us to strike, to prove the International no foolish dream. Let these rumors of a great war of nations but continue, and in a short time, these seamen and firemen and dock laborers will be in the streets like foolish school boys cheering for the flag which their oppression symbolizes. We must strike now, immediately, or not at all. We must from their lethargy awake these workers, these unions. We must put fear into the hearts of capitalism. (rising to his feet, his voice trembling with his earnestness) We must at the heart of capital strike. There is necessary in this crisis a blow which, like the spark in a magazine of gunpowder, will the conflagration establish. A blow must be struck so powerfill that on it will the eyes and minds of all be focussed. We must the attention of the world call to the International Workers of the Earth and to the issue of this strike. 
(his eyes growing bright) But what is my part in this? 
Wait! Have patience! Soon you shall know. Our blow is at the heart of the Ship Trust to be directed, at the Company which controls the whole ship combine. 
You mean the Ocean Company? (Hartmann nods.) Good enough! 
(solemnly) There is something I must warn you of before you accept definitely this mission. It is very dangerous, very dangerous. The one who undertakes it risks death, imprisonment. 
(steadily) I understand. Go on.
You accept? 
Yes. 
(taking his hand with impulsive admiration) Tom! 
Good boy! 
My boy, I am glad. Whatever happens, your soul will rejoice. It will know you are the good fight fighting, the fight of suffering humanity. 
What is it I am to do? 
A steamer, the finest steamer of the Ocean Company, sails the day after tomorrow. (Tom is struck with some thought and glances quickly at Olga.) You will ship--is it that you call it?--on her as a fireman. Here are your fireman's papers. (takes papers from pocket) They are made out in the name of Tom Donovan. You will know, better than I, where you can find clothes suitable, and how to disguise yourself 
But where does Olga come in? 
She will as second class passenger on the same ship go. When Liverpool is reached she will the letter to Whitely present, and he will give her dynamite which she will give to you when you come on shore. 
Dynamite? 
Whitely will instruct you how to use it, and when. Some time during the steamship's stop in Liverpool you will dynamite the engines--without loss of life--if possible. 
(confused by the suddenness of all this) But what good will that do--to dynamite the engines? 
(breaking in) Just this. All the men will realize that it was one of their number who did it. There will be no attempt at concealment of that fact. It will give them confidence in their power; and it will hit the Ocean Company a hard blow. The Companies will make no compromise after that. Instead they will probably adopt harsh retaliatory measures. The strike will break out and it will be a fight to the finish. 
(eagerly) And this explosion will point to sabotage as the logical method of waging the war of labor--that force alone can be effective against force. For many years the workers have appealed to the humanity and fairness of capital, and they have always found it unfair and cruel. They have thought Capitalism impregnable behind its fortress of law, and they have been afraid. A few successful assaults of this kind and their eyes will be opened. They will realize their strength and they will unite and demand, not beg. 
The words of Danton--"It is necessary to dare, and again to dare, and still again to dare." 
(resentfully) It wasn't the daring I was thinking of, Hartmann. If I'm to risk my life I want to know it's going to do some good. (still more resentfully) And I don't see why you have to drag Olga into all this. 
(impatiently) Tom! Please! 
Oh, I know it makes you sore to have me say that. I don't care. I don't think it's right to make a woman run risks--
But don't you see? I won't be running risks. They'll never suspect me. 
That's the answer, Tom. 
Maybe it's safe enough--still--I feel--
Tom! You're not going to back out now? 
(fiercely) Olga! (turning to Hartmann) You haven't even told me the name of the steamer yet. 
Ach, so it is. (reaches in pocket and peers at the card he takes out) Hmmm--yes--here it is--the San Francisco. (In a flash of understanding Enwright and Olga look at each other and then at Tom.) 
Good heavens. 
The devil! 
(with agrim smile) By God, I thought so. 
Thought what? I do not understand--(looks from one to the other) 
My father is second engineer of the San Francisco. 
(stunned) Ach Gott! So? So? I remember--you said your father was engineer on a boat--but there are of boats so many, wie? was? How could I know? 
(slowly) It makes no difference. (with a meaning look at Olga) I am not going to back out. 
What! In spite of this you will--
I said I would do it, Hartmann, and I'm going to. 
But your father? He will recognize--
I'll see that he doesn't, never fear; and I'll see that the thing happens when he's off watch and ashore. 
(unconvinced--wringing his hands) Ach, the miserable luck of it. It was all so fine, so certain. 
(picking up his hat) If you knew what kind of man my father is you wouldn't worry. (contemptuously) He isn't much of an obstacle. I'll take care of him. (moving toward door) I'm going up to see him now. (He laughs.) 
(jumping to his feet in a flurry of angry fear) Gott in Himmel, you will not tell him? 
(indignantly) Hartmann! 
(as he sees the expression on Tom's face--haltingly) A thousand pardons. 
(coldly) You needn't have asked that question, Hartmann. I'll see you here tomorrow morning about nine. Good-night. I won't be long, Olga. (He goes out as The Curtain Falls)
ACT II 
SCENE--Sitting-room of Thomas Perkins' small home in jersey City--a small room crowded with cheap furniture. On the right, two windows with drawn shades and stiff white curtains. In the right corner, a sofa. In the middle of rear wall, a door leading into the hall. On the right of door, a bookcase half filled with a few books and stacks of magazines. In the left corner, a stand on which is a potted rubber plant. In the left wall, forward, a door. Ugly straight-backed chairs are pushed back against the walls which are papered in some dreary floral design. 
It is about nine o'clock on the same night. Thomas Perkins and Henderson are discovered at the table playing cards. Perkins is a nervous, self-conscious, awkward little man with a soft timid voice. He is half bald but an unkempt fringe of thin grey hair straggles about his ears. He wears spectacles, carpet slippers, ill-fitting shabby clothes. Henderson is a tall, lean Scotchman with grey hair and bristly mustache. He is dressed in the uniform of a ship's engineer. 
They are just finishing a hand at euchre. Henderson is fiercely intent upon the game, agleam of triumph in his eye. Perkins pays but little attention to his cards but continually glances at the door in rear. His manner is worried, his expression troubled, and evidently his playing is ragged in the extreme for Henderson grunts with contemptuous satisfaction as he rakes in the tricks.
(whacking his last card down) That does for ye, I tak' it, Perkins.   
(with a nervous start) Eh? Oh yes, yes, of course. (hopefully) That makes game, don't it, Henderson? 
(looking at his counters grumblingly) I ha' one more to go. (Perkins sighs, casts a quick glance at the door, takes up cards and prepares to deal again.) Shuffle the cards, mon, shuffle the cards! (A sudden thought strikes him.) It's no your deal, mon, it's no your deal! Gie them here to me! 
(timidly apologetic) I was forgetting. (hands cards to Henderson) 
(shuffling the cards with a great clatter--sarcastically) Forgettin'. Na door ye’ll be likewise forgettin' yon's the seventh game ye've lost and ye arre thrupence hapenny my debtor. (He licks his thumb and commences to deal.) 
Seven cents, that is. (commences to fumble in his pockets) 
(irritably) Dinna bother wi' it the noo. Canna ye take a joke? Play your hand! (Perkins snatches up his hand, and plays. Whenever Henderson looks at his hand, Perkins glances with pitiful hopefulness at the door. Henderson takes a trick, ponders with knit brows, plays a card. Perkins hears the flap of the card. He has been taking advantage of Henderson's preoccupation to glance surreptitiously at his watch. He hurriedly plays the first card his hand touches and starts to pull in the trick. Henderson's big hand grips his wrist.) 
No, ye don't! (Perkins stares at him with amazement.) I little kenned I'd see the day I'd be gamblin' for gold wi' a card sharp. 
A card sharp! 
D'ye ken the trumps? 
Diamonds. 
An' this card I played? (holding it up accusingly before Perkins) 
Ten of diamonds. 
(solemnly, impressing him with the terrible outrage) An' ye played the jock o' spades on it--and took the trick! 
I was thinking it was right bower. 
(picking up Perkins' hand and looking at it) An' ye had diamonds to follow suit wi' (shakes his head solemnly) an' ye dinna do it. Mon alive, whur are your wits? (throws the cards disgustedly on the table) We'll play na more the nicht. 'Tis na sport playin' wi' one so ha'-wilted. 
(gathering up the cards with a sgh of relief) I'm sorry. I couldn't keep my mind on the game. I kept wondering if Tom--
(with a grunt) Ay, Tam, Tam--always Tam! 
(looking at his watch) It's early yet, isn't it? He said he'd come. I do hope--(with a sigh) I told Mrs. Allen to keep supper warm for him. (apprehensively) She'll be mad.I do hope he'll come. (hopefully) Don't you think he will? (He plays nervously with the cards on the table.) 
Ay, ay, he'll come--when he's good an' ready. 
(goes to the window and peers out--returns with a sigh) Will you have a little something to drink now? 
I'll sup a wee drop o' whiskey. (Perkins goes slowly out of the door on the left. Henderson fills and lights his pipe. The sound of a woman's shrill, irritated voice comes from left. Henderson smiles grimly and remarks to himself, half-aloud: "Ay, he's catchin' it the noo." A moment later Perkins enters hastily from the left carrying a bottle of Scotch, a pitcher of water and two glasses. He places these on the table. The woman's voice still shrills on from the left.) 
(agitated) Mrs. Allen is very mad--about the dinner. She says she won't try to keep it any longer. It's burnt, she says. (worriedly) And I know Tom will be hungry. 
(grunting) Ay, you wi' your Tam an' your Mrs. Allen. 
(fearfully) Ssshh! Here she comes now. (The flow of shrill talk grows quickly louder and Mrs. Allen enters from left. She is a thin, angular, middle-aged woman with sharp features. Her voice is unpleasantly high and rasping.) 
(taking a hat pin from her mouth and jabbing it into her hat) And not another minute, not another second will I stay if you was to git down on your knees to me. I ain't one, and I never was one to balk at workin', and no one knows it better'n you, Thomas Perkins. Ain't I come in regular every day you was here for the past five years, and once a week when you was on ship, scrubbin' my hands off, and dustin', and lookin' after things? And I ain't never missed once--and all the time I got a husband and family of my own to tend to besides. And what d'you suppose my man'll think when I come back this late in the night? Liable to accuse me of skylarkin' with you, Thomas Perkins, that's what he is, with his temper, and you a widower. 
(faintly) No, no, Mrs. Allen, I'm sure he won't. 
(gruffly) Tush, rush, woman, is your mon daft? 
(turning furiously) Don't you Lush me, Mr. Henderson! And don't you be slingin' slurs at Mister Allen. He's a better man than you are or ever will be for all your bein' a chief engineer. He ain't daft! No, nor he ain't a sot with a bottle of whiskey at his elbow all the day, neither. (Henderson nearly bursts with rage at this but makes no reply.) 
(interposing) It was just this once, Mrs. Allen. I won't ask you to do it again. It was very, very nice of you indeed. You see I thought Tom would be hungry, and--
(with a snort) Tom! You're always thinkin' about him; and much he cares about you, never comin' to see you, and leavin' you here eatin' your heart out with lonesomeness night after night. Why isn't he here for dinner at seven o'clock like he said he would be, and him knowin' you was here all alone? 
They kept him at the office, I'm sure; or something came up to prevent him, or--(pitiably) It's early yet for a young man like him. Don't you think he'll come, Mrs. Allen? 
Lawd knows! And if I was you I wouldn't bother whether he did or not. A pretty way he's treated you after you've sweated in a dirty engine room--
(hastily resenting this slur) The engine room is not dirty, Mrs. Allen. It's as clean as--as--as your kitchen. Isn't it, Henderson? (Henderson grunts.) 
(ignoring this correction) After you've sweated in a dirty engine room to send him through school--
(feebly expostulating) Mrs. Allen! 
Oh he can't pull the wool over my eyes like he does you. That's what you get for eddicating him so much. It's just what Mr. Allen tells me when I spoke about sending our Jim to high school. No, he says, none of those high-fangled schools for a son of mine. I wants 'em to be workers, not loafers, he says; and he was right. 
No doubt, no doubt, Mrs. Allen. 
(proudly) And that same boy's a good plumber right now, and earns good wages, and has a wife and children, and never drinks 'cept on Saturday nights like his father told him. 
Yes, of course, of course, a fine boy. 
And when I think of your Tom it jest makes my blood boil--the best part of a good dinner burnt up. How long is it since he's been here to so much as eat a bite with you, tell me that! 
(vaguely) Why--er--not so long ago--
It's more than three months, that's what it is! And three times during that time I've cooked dinners for him, and he ain't never come till the dinner was spoiled and I'd gone home. 
(drily) I dinna blame the lad. (He puffs furiously on his pipe. Mrs. Allen glares at him.) 
And are you foolish enough to think, Thomas Perkins, that it's that job you got for him that keeps him from coming up here? Well you may think so, but t'ain't; (impressively) Your Tom is skylarkin' around with some girl, that's what he is, and that's the reason he ain't got no time for his father. 
(eagerly) A girl? 
Yes, young Dugan says he sees him every night pretty near, and always with the same girl. 
(delighted) Why that explains everything, doesn't it? You couldn't expect him to be coming up here in that case, Mrs. Allen. And he's never let on a word about it, the young rascal. (with pitiful eagerness for more details) She must be a nice girl, Mrs. Allen? 
(grudgingly) Well, young Dugan says he didn't notice nothin' wrong about her--but he's a man. 
She must be a pretty girl, Mrs. Allen? 
Young Dugan says she was pretty enough, but Lawd knows what people think is pretty nowadays. 
And does young Dugan know who she is, Mrs. Allen? 
No, he don't know nothin' 'bout her 'cept what I've told you, but he heard Tom call her Olga once. 
(fascinated by the name) Olga. Olga. A pretty name, isn't it, Mrs. Allen? 
(with a sniff) Sounds furrin to me. (with a sigh) I'm glad you take it so easy, Thomas Perkins. 
(smiling happily) Thank you so much for telling me, Mrs. Allen. I'm very glad. A young man like Tom ought to get married.
(with a martyred air) Course it ain't none of my business and I ain't got no right to be talkin' about it; but you've been kind to me, Thomas Perkins, and you've been a friend to me and Mr. Allen when we needed a friend bad, and you've always paid me well, and--(She is on the verge of rears.) 
(terrified by this demonstration) It's nothing, nothing, nothing at all, nothing—
(swallowing her tears--indignantly) And even if you do take it so easy, I say again that you been treated shameful--and I know Mr. Henderson will agree with me. (Henderson, during the conversation between Perkins and the housekeeper, has been fidgeting in his chair as if on pins and needles. Several times it has seemed as if his irritation would compel him to speech but with mighty--and apparent efforts--he has controlled these impulses.) 
(jumping at this unexpected question, turns around and surveys Mrs. Allen icily for a second; then ejaculates forcibly) I dinna agree wi' one word that ever came from your mouth, Mrs. Allen; and I would considerr it a kindness of ye not to address me. (Mrs. Allen is dumb with fury. Henderson turns his back to her and puffs on his pipe; then turns with a satisfied air to the bottle at his elbow and starts to pour out a drink.) 
(seeing her chance--as Henderson lifts the bottle--in a loud stage whisper) Keep you eye on that bottle is what I says, Thomas Perkins. He might git vilent. (Henderson sets down the bottle on the table with a crash--but before his rage can find expression, Mrs. Allen sweeps out the door in rear with a good-night to Perkins. ) 
(coming over to the table with a sigh of relief ) She's gone. 
Mon, mon, what a deeil of a woman! The Lord God pity puir Mr. Allen. (smiting his clenched fist on the table) Was I her husband I'd drop poison in her tea, on ma conscience I would. (testily) How can ye put up wi' her? 
(sitting down) It's just her way. She's a very good woman, really--very good-hearted--and works very, very hard. (Henderson grunts.) You haven't taken your drink yet, Henderson.
Ay, I ha' forgotten it. (takes a sip) Yon woman's clatter addled my wits. (Perkins sips his glass of water. The two men are silent for a moment, Henderson engrossed by his Scotch and Perkins staring mournfully before him.) 
(with a sigh) The San Francisco sails the day after tomorrow. 
Ay, and the Empress as well. 
I was down on board this morning. 
Canna ye keep off the bloody ship when ye've no call to be there. I never saw a mon sae fond of his job as ye are. 
(simply) I was lonely. 
(genuinely sympathetic) Ye puir unfortunate body! And so ye go doon to your engines for companionship! Mon, but you're the queer person! 
(his eyes lighting up) I love those engines--all engines. 
An' I hate the bloody things--most o' the time. 
No, you don't. You can't mean that. 
Ay, I do. Twenty-five years I ha' been sweatin' in the bowels of a ship till my stomach's turned wi' the lot o' them. (very seriously) An' I tell ye now, Perkins, I'm goin' to chuck the sea an' spend the remainderr of my days on shore. 
(horrified) You're going to work on shore! 
Ay; in the marine engine works at Liverpool. 
You don't mean--you won't sail on the Empress any more? 
I ha' given in my notice. At the end of this trip, I'm through. 
(stunned by this news, sits blinking his eyes rapidly--clears his throat huskily--in a trembling voice) I'm sorry--(quickly) Of course, I'm glad for your sake, very glad--see you better yourself--you know that. What I meant was--sorry we won't--(He falters.) Have many more nights together here--like this. 
(with feeling) On that point, Perkins, ye are na more sorry than I am. (drily but kindly) 'Tis a wet walk from Liverpool to the States, Perkins. (a pause)
(sadly) Twenty years, isn't it, Henderson?--We've known each other. 
Ay, in the neighborhood o' that. 
YOU were fourth engineer on the same ship I was second on, the old Roumania, when we first met. 
Ay. 
(with a pitiful attempt at a smile) And now you're a chief engineer and I'm still where I was--second. 
(forcibly) An' ye ken more about a ship's engines than I everr had in my head. I canna understand it. (savagely) They're a rotten lot--that Ocean Steamship Company--or ye'd ha' received promotion years agone. 
(protestingly) No, no, they're all right. 
Bosh! If ye'd threatened them to chuck your job--if ye had more push to ye--
Yes, that's it; of course you're right enough, maybe; but you see I never was born that way. (slowly) It isn't in me. (brightening) But I'm not complaining. I'm contented enough where I am. I don't think after all I'd be happy with the whole responsibility of the engines on my shoulders. I think maybe I wouldn't make a good first--and the Company knows that. 
(disgustedly) The deed damn the Company. 
YOU see--I know--they all know--I've no strength, no force of character. 
(scornfully--knocking out his pipe) Na force of characterr? I suppose ye'd na force of characterr the day the boiler burst on the Roumania an' ye went below in the scaldin' steam. 
(embarrassed) It was nothing. Someone had to. I was young then. (abruptly) You haven't finished your drink. 
'Tis no use talkin' to you. Ye will na credit aught good o' yourself. I ha' neverr encounterred such a mon. (He finishes his drink--starts to fill pipe.) 
It's going to be lonely--when you're gone--
Ye can live on the ship then and be near the dear engines all o' the time. 
(seriously) Yes, I'm thinking of that. 
(surprised) Surely ye canna mean that.
Yes, I do. I have a reason now, after something I heard tonight. 
(with sly sarcasm) I dinna dream I'd ever be rivals in a body's affections wi' a quadruple expansion engine. 
(not knowing whether Henderson is really offended or not) No, no! (seeing the twinkle in Henderson's eye) Oh, now you're joking. But I do love those engines. (enthusiastically) Seems as if I could never get tired watching them. (shyly) I've got to know them so well, and sometimes I think--I know this sounds foolish to you--that they know me. (Henderson grunts.) Oh I know it sounds foolish, doesn't it, but I can't help believing it. Sometimes when I touch them I seem to know they feel me. I seem to hear them speaking like a friend to me, times when I'm lonely and, well, sort of sick of things--and they're a comfort. (eagerly) And in a storm, I know I can hear them groan with pain, and suffer, and I feel so sorry and try to do all I can to help them. (nervously) I know you'll think all this is very silly and--childish, don't you. 
No, I canna say I ha' na felt somewhat o' the same at times, myself. 
(pleased) Then it's only natural, isn't it? You see I've been with them so much. One gets to be friends with them--and even (hesitating shyly) love them, in a manner of speaking--(sadly) People never have seemed to understand or like me, somehow--except you. 
The deeil damn them for a pack o' fools. 
Oh, it isn't their fault. It's just that I don't know how to act with people. I'm stupid. I can't say the things I want to say. You--you know how I act. Why even Tom, I feel embarrassed even with him, he's been so much away. (looking anxiously at his watch) I wonder what can be keeping him. 
(fiercely) Ah, Tam, Tam! 'Tis a shame the mannerr you've spoilt that boy. And what thanks does he give ye? Were he mine I'd take a whip to him, big as he is. 
(with real anger) Henderson! You mustn't talk that way about Tom. I can't permit it, even from you. 
Ah weel, dinna fly off the handle. I'll say naught more.
You don't understand, Henderson. Tom isn't like me. He takes after his mother. (a pause) You remember his mother, don't you? 
(with an expression indicating his disapproval of that lady) Ay. 
She was just like Tom -- large and forceful.
(grimly) Ay she was; an' neverr perrmitted ye to call your soul your ain. 
Oh not as bad as that, Henderson; but she never could understand why I didn't become president of the Steamship Company. (quaintly) I was lonely--after she died. That's why I came to love the engines so. Of course I couldn't have Tom at home alone when he was only a little chap, and I was away most of the time. So he's been away ever since then till he grew up, and I haven't seen much of him. (sadly) That's the whole trouble. He doesn't know me. 
'Tis time he did. (disgustedly) Larkin' around wi' lasses! 
I was very glad to hear that, Henderson. If he would only marry--
There are many ways wi' lasses besides takin' them for wife. 
That couldn't be so in this case. Tom isn't the kind to trifle or do anything wrong. 
An' why are ye so anxious to ha' him married? 
Well you know I spoke of closing up this house and living on board--I couldn't stand it here alone when you can't come any more. But if Tom gets married I was thinking--You know I've just paid off the last of the mortgage, and I've always intended to give this house to Tom for a wedding present. That's what I've been saving for. I've been thinking that when Tom and his wife came to live here they might let me stay with them when I was in port, and--it would be like home again. (shyly) And maybe there'd be children and I'd be a grandfather, wouldn't I? (He falls into a smiling reverie.) 
I had na thought Tam was earrnin' enough to take on a wife. 
Oh, Tom has a very good position now.
He has you to thank for it. 
I only got him a start, that was all. Very good of the Company to have done me the favor, don't you think? (proudly) Tom's been promoted twice since then. He's well liked in the office and--(He stops abruptly as if struck by some alarming thought. An expression of dismay comes over his face.) I do hope nothing will happen, Henderson. 
(surprised by his change of tone) Eh? 
(greatly agitated) I have so set my mind on having him rise in the Company--and what I heard today--Oh, I know it can't be true. There must be some mistake. 
(impatiently) Speak your mind! What is it? 
It's had me so upset, ever since. Listen. When I was passing by the manager's office this morning Mr. Griffin stopped me and said he wanted to warn me about Tom. 
(as if this was no more than he expected) Hmm! 
I couldn't say a word I was so frightened. He said he wanted me to say a word to Tom about the company he was keeping. It seems one of Tom's best friends in the office was discharged a short time ago for being an Anarchist or a Socialist or a--I forget the other--it's three letters, I remember. 
The I.W.E.? 
Yes, that's it. What does it mean? 
The International Workers of the Earth they call themselves. 
What kind of people are they? What is it? A club? A secret society? 
They're a lot of scamps who will na work themselves an' canna endure the thought of anyone else worrkin'. They go around makin' speeches, an' gettin' men discontented wi' their jobs. 'Tis they who help start all the strikes. Ha' ye no heard about the seamen and firemen's strike they say is going to break out in a week or two? 
Yes, the Chief spoke about it this morning. 
The same I.W.E. you were speakin' of is back of it all. They'll be askin' for a Turkish bath in the stokehold next. I would be verra sorry to hear Tam had any truck wi' such rogues. 
(hastily) Oh, I'm sure not. Mr. Griffin didn't say that. He only said Tom's friend was one of their members. (brightening) Mr. Griffin said everyone in the office liked Tom, and it would be a pity if--But of course there must be some mistake. Don't you think so? 
I ha' na door there is. Tam's no a scoundrel. (A knock at the door. Without waiting for anyone to come Tom pushes open the door and walks into the room.) 
(with careless indifference) Evening, father. Sorry I wasn't here for dinner but I couldn't make it. (to Henderson, curtly) Good evening. 
(coldly) Good evening to ye. 
(pitiably self-conscious, nervous, and confused) Oh, it doesn't matter. I tried to have Mrs. Allen keep something warm for you but it was so late for her--poor woman--you know how she is. 
(irritably) Is that old pest still coming here? 
Oh, she isn't so bad. I'm used to her, you see. (Tom smiles at him with amused contempt. Perkins cringes before this smile.) 
(getting up and picking up his hat) I'll be gettin' doon to the ship, I'm thinkin'. (goes to door) 
(beseechingly) Oh, don't go yet. It's so early. Surely you can stay a while--
(firmly) I ha' some letters to write before I turn in. (nodding) 
(carelessly) Good night. 
(going over and shaking Henderson's hand) But you'll come up again tomorrow night, won't you? the last night, you know. 
Ay. 
We'll have another hand at euchre, wouldn't you like to? 
Versa weel. (with a smile) But dinna forget ye are already thrupence hapenny my debtor. (He goes out. Tom sits down in his chair. Perkins comes over and sits down in his old place. Tom looks steadily at his father but remains silent. Perkins squirms. A pause.)
(at last--desperately) Henderson's going to give up his position on the Empress and work on shore--marine engine works at Liverpool. 
Ah. 
I'll miss him coming up here nights. 
(with a signifacantglance at the bottle) He'll probably miss it too--in a way. 
Oh no, Tom, you mustn't think that. He's my best friend in the world. It's going to be lonely without him. 
(banteringly) You'll have no one to talk engines with any longer, will you? Except on ship. 
(innocently) No. 
But you'll still have the engines themselves--that's a comfort. 
(seriously) Yes, that's a comfort. 
And you'll have the ship-the San Francisco. 
Yes. 
And the Ocean Steamship Company--L--T--D. 
(feeling the mockery in Tom's voice for the first time--fidgeting miserably) Now you're trying to have a joke on me, aren't you? 
Not at all. I was only reminding you of the many sources of consolation for the loss of Henderson. 
(desperately) I wish you could get up oftener. (as Tom frowns) Oh I know you're very busy. I mean just once in a while. 
(with a sigh) I'll try and do so. 
It's been such a long time since you've been here. (gulping) It doesn't seem like home anymore, when you're not here. 
Well, you didn't need me as long as Henderson was here. He understands all about engines--and I don't. 
(humbly) I'll promise not to talk about engines in future. 
(perfunctorily) Oh, I like to hear about them well enough, when you're not so technical I can't follow you. 
It's the only thing I know about, you see--and like. 
(who has been relenting, hardens) Yes, I realize that. 
(feeling he has said something offensive is in a pitiable quandary. A pause.) I'm thinking of giving up the house and living on board, after this. 
(surprised) Why, I thought you liked the house. 
I do, but--it's lonely. 
What do you intend to do? Sell it? 
Oh no, no, I couldn't do that. 
Rent it? 
No, no--you see--er--you see--I was--(He stutters with confusion before Tom's steady look.) I just paid off the last of the mortgage a month ago. 
Ah. 
(with satisfaction) It's all mine now. 
(not interested) That's fine. 
I was thinking that you--
What? 
Might want to live here. 
And if I did? Why should you live on board ship in that case? 
(confused) Well, you see, I--er--
Do you think I'd live way out here alone? 
No, no, not alone. 
Not alone? 
You see--I thought--maybe--(with a feeble attempt at slyness) Mrs. Allen has been telling me all about it. 
(frowning) About what? What bit of gossip has the old witch got hold of now? 
About--about--the girl. 
What girl? 
She said--name--was Olga. 
(wonderingly) The old witch! How did she ever hear of that? 
She said young Dugan--
So he's the one, eh? I remember we've met him a couple of times. (with a sudden laugh) So you're willing that Olga and I should come here to live? 
(beaming) Yes, yes, of course! 
But you'll preserve your sense of propriety by staying on the ship. (in half-angry amusement) If that isn't just like you! 
I--I--I don't know what you mean.
(with real gratitude) At that, it's darn nice of you, father, and I want you to know I appreciate it, and Olga would, too. I never suspected you of being so broadminded. Thank you just the same; but Olga and I will stay where we are for the present. 
You live--at the same place? 
(perplexed in his turn) Certainly. 
Together? I mean--with her? 
Why yes. 
(eagerly) Then you're married already! And you never told me! (joyfully) I'm so glad to hear it, so glad--(He stops in confusion at the look on Tom's face. ) 
(slowly) Olga and I are not married. 
(bewildered) Not married? 
No. 
And you're living together--as man and wife! 
Yes; as comrades. 
But you are going to be married--you're intending--
No. Look here, what did Mrs. Allen tell you? 
That you were keeping company--with a girl--named Olga. 
That all? 
Yes. 
And I thought--(thoughtfully) Now I see what the use of the house was to be--a wedding present. (looking at his father keenly) Now you know the truth of it. 
(all at sea) You're joking, aren't you, Tom? You wouldn't do that. Live with a girl--and not married. It's--it's wicked. 
That's a matter of opinion. 
But I can't see--It's not right, Tom. What if they heard of this at the office? 
Damn the office! 
(shocked) Don't say that, Tom. (miserably) I never thought you'd go around with that kind of girl. 
(sternly) She's the girl I love, and I respect her as much as I would my own mother if she were alive. That's enough for you to know, father. We won't talk about it any more--unless you want me to leave.
(abjectly cringing) No, no, please don't go. I won't speak of it. Don't go! (obsessed by the idea) That's what Mr. Griffin warned me of. 
Eh? 
He said you'd be getting into trouble. 
Then you knew--? When did Griffin speak to you? 
This morning. 
All. What did he say? 
He said you were keeping bad company. 
(enraged) The imbecile! Who did he mean by bad company? 
Some friend of yours in the office who was dis-charged for being a member of the I.W.--the I.W.--
The I.W.E.? 
Yes, that's it. 
(grimly) Did he say that I belonged to the I.W.E. too? 
Oh no, nothing as serious, as bad as that. 
Well I do. 
You--what? 
I am a member of the I.W.E. 
(toying to force a smile) You're trying to make fun of me now, I know. 
I mean it. I'm serious. 
But aren't they--don't they start strikes--and throw bombs--and blow up places with dynamite? 
They use force when force is used against them, when they have to. 
But you wouldn't do anything like that--I mean dynamite. 
Yes, I would. (looking keenly at his father) If they asked me to dynamite the engines of the San Francisco tomorrow, I'd do it. 
Dynamite my engines! (with surprising firmness and decision) I'd never permit that. 
(with a contemptuous smile) How would you stop it? 
I don't know, but I would, somehow. (seeing Tom's smile) Or the Chief would. 
Ah, I thought you'd wait for the Chief's orders.
Of course you're joking. Who would ever think of such a thing. 
(easily) Yes, I was only joking. 
(excitedly) Dynamite the engines of a ship! Why it would be a crime. No one but Anarchists or criminals would do such a thing. 
Don't get excited about it. It would be a good lesson to the rotten old Ocean Steamship Company if someone did something of the sort. 
(flushing) I don't like to hear you speak of the Company so disrespectfully. 
(throwing his hands in the air) Disrespectfully! Why, good heavens, that thieving Line is owned by the biggest financial bandits in Wall Street or in the country, and you ought to know it. 
(rising from his chair--tensely) I know nothing of the kind. 
Then it's time you did. The sooner you do, the sooner you'll get over your servile fidelity to the Line and everyone connected with it. Don't you know that the Ocean Company is the head of the ship combine, and that the ship combine was organized by the greatest gang of crooked capitalists in the world? 
(breathing hard) I know nothing of the kind. 
Don't you know that the seamen and firemen on their ships, and on your own ship, the San Francisco, are shamefully underpaid and overworked? That the Company will not listen to their just demands, but grinds them down and gives them no chance? Oh, but what's the use of talking to you? I tell you right now the Ocean Steamship Company is rotten from top to bottom. 
(bristling with indignant rage) It's a lie. (Tom looks at him in amused astonishment.) It's a lie! (sputtering) How dare you say such things? About the Company I have worked for for thirty years and never had a complaint to make. 
And who have promoted men over your head time after time! A lot you have to be grateful to them for! Why you ought to hate them as-as much as I do. 
(commencing to wilt before Tom's contempt) No, no, Tom, you're very wrong. It's my own fault I haven't been promoted. I haven't the ability and they know it. 
You haven't got the pull behind you, that's the answer. Ability? You know twice as much about marine engines as the fleet engineer. I've heard him say so myself. 
(beamingfor a second) Did he really say that? He must have been only joking. (then worriedly) You're wrong to run down the Company, indeed you are. It's all this I.W.--whatever-their-name-is foolishness you've got in your head. (anxiously) You mustn't go around with them any more. You mustn't belong to them. Supposing the Company should hear of it! 
They have heard of it. 
What! 
(slowly--letting the words sink in) Yes. They fired me this afternoon for just that. 
(staring wildly at Tom--aghast) They--discharged--you? 
I was fired this afternoon. So you see your warning is too late. 
You've lost your position! (He crumples up into his chair.) 
I meant to tell you before. (with airy indifference) It's of so little importance I'd forgotten it. 
(half-aloud) They've discharged you! My son discharged in disgrace! After the thirty years I've worked for them! What will they think of me? 
(with angry contempt) What will they think of you? I knew that was how you'd take it--the damned old Company before everything else in the world! (disgustedly) Hell! (rises to his feet) 
(hastily) I didn't mean that, Tom, not in that way. You don't understand. I was only thinking they might discharge me too, because--because--
Because I was your son, eh? 
No, no, Tom, not that! I mean they might think I was connected with this I.W.--
(scornfully) Don't worry. There's no danger of their getting rid of so faithful a servant! They'd have a hard time finding another like you.
(pitifully) I know you think it's weak of me--I can't help it-Don't look at me that way, Tom. I wouldn't lose my position on the San Francisco for anything in the world. I love the work--and the ship--and the engines--I'm just beginning to know them. 
Bah! 
If you've lost your position, Tom, you must need money. Let me give you some, won't you? 
No. 
Let me help you, won't you? Let me loan you some. You can pay it back sometime. 
I don't want any more of the Company's money. 
Listen! If I went to them--I've worked faithfully for thirty years. They've never had a complaint to make of me--if I went and asked them--
(frowning) What? 
And you were to promise them to give up this I.W. foolishness--you're only a boy, you know--and you promised not to live with that woman any more--I think--I think--they might--
(in hard tones) Take me back? 
Yes, Yes, I'm almost sure. I'll see Mr. Griffin the first thing in the morning and I'll--
And you advise me to do this? 
(faltering) I think--I think--
You advise me to cringe like a yellow mongrel and lick the boot which has kicked me out? 
(half-insane with nervous fear of everything) I don't know--I don't know--You must go back to your position, really you must--I've dreamed so much--You'll be president of the Company some day--I've failed--You must succeed--Please, Tom, please go back! I know they'll take you if you'll only--
(with cold rage) By God, I'm through! I've had enough of all this. I've tried to think of you as my father, tried to feel like a son toward you, but it's time to give up the pretence. You're in one world and I'm in another. We'd better say goodbye now while we still have some kindly feelings for each other. When the best you can advise your son is to become a cur, it's time to quit. Goodbye!
No, no, no! Please! You mustn't go, Tom, you mustn't leave me this way! I can't say goodbye to you! (But Tom has gone out shutting the door behind him. Perkins stares at the closed door in dumb anguish for a moment--then stumbles to chair and leans forward on the table, his head hidden in his arms.) 
(sobbing wildly) Tom! Tom! 
(The Curtain Falls)
ACT III 
SCENE I
SCENE--A section of the firemen's forecastle on the S.S. San Francisco at dock in Liverpool--two weeks or so later. Bunks, ranged three deep with a space of two and a half to three feet between them, occupy the rear and left walls. Over the upper tier of bunks in rear, several open portholes. In front of the bunks, low wooden benches. In under the lower tier a glimpse can be had of seachests, suit cases, etc. jammed in indiscriminately. In the middle of right wall, a door. On either side of it, more tiers of bunks. A row of steel stanchions extends down the middle of the room. Everything is steel, painted white, except the board floor. 
It is night. As the curtain rises, the ship's bell is heard ringing four bells. 
A number of stokers are seated on the benches or lying in their bunks, the majority smoking clay pipes. Most of them are either stripped to the waist or in their undershirts, for the smoke-laden air in the forecastle on this August night is stiflingly hot. Tom is seated in their midst, smoking a cigarette, staring moodily before him. 
(a giant of a red-headed Irishman--knocking out his pipe--savagely to Tom) Let thim do somethin' and be quick about ut, and not be maikin' bloody fools av the lot av us. 
They will, O'Rourke. Give them a chance. 
A chance, is ut? Wid us sailin' tomorry and the rist av the ships durin' the week, and a new lot comin' in. (Tom gets up impatiently and strides up and down the forecastle.) 
(a tall, wiry, grey-headed man with round shoulders) I think the whole damned thing's off, s'what I think. 
I tell you it isn't, Harris. I tell you--
(squat, broad-shouldered, pasty-faced--interrupting scornfully) Tell 'im! That's wot you been tellin' us arll the parst week 'ere. I ain't seen nothink 'appen yet, I 'avent. (still more scornfully) International Workers of the bleedin' world! Bloody swankers I calls the lot uv them. 
(contemptuously) Shut up, Cocky. The heat's bad enough without having to listen to your drivel. 
(with injured indignation) Gawd blimey! Listen to 'im! Carnt a man say wot 'e thinks? 
(savagely) Close yer big mout', ye little scut, or I'll close ut for ye. 
(whiningly) Aw naw! 
Just the same, Cocky's right. (to Tom) Ain't you been sayin' all week even if the union's gone back on us, this I.W.E. would help us out and start the strike? 
Yes; and I still say it. 
Well, it looks 's if the union is afraid to start anything, don't it? 
Yes, damn them. It looks that way. 
(rising to a climax) Then where's the I.W.E. comin' in, that's what we wants to know? 
There's still time for that. 
(a giant of a shock-headed German--spitting disgustedly) Time? Mit one more night in port only? 
(with decision) It'll be done tonight. 
It? What's it? That's what we wants to know, Donovan. 
You'll know soon enough. (evasively) I'm waiting for someone now. 
Divil take all this sneakin' business! Who is ut you're waitin' for? 
I don't know exactly or I'd have told you--Whitely, probably. 
(encouraged) Whitely's a man that'd stop at nothin'. I know that, none betther. Betune the two av ye ye should be able to think av somethin'; but for the love av the saints be quick. The rest av us'll folly ye to the divil, if need be. (a murmur of assent from the others) Only, be quick wid ut. Wid only wan night more in Liverpool, there's little toime to be speech-maikin', and I'm not for puttin' up wid this dog's life wan day longer. (chorus of assent) 
(resolutely) Look here, men, I've promised you if the union leaders failed you--
Well, they have, ain't they? 
We're not absolutely sure yet. They've been weakening. Tonight's meeting of the officers of the union will decide whether they intend standing to their guns or not.
'N if they don't? 
(firmly) I'll act--we'll act immediately. 
That's the talkin'. 
But'ow are we to know--abaht this'ere meetin'? 
Whitely's there. He'll be down to tell us what happened. He ought to be here any minute now. 
(savagely) Thin let thim go back on us for the black scuts av traithors they arr, and be damned to thim. We're men enough widout the say-so av the unions to show a thing or two to the ship's officers and teach thim to be swillin' their guts wid wine and champagne at the Company's dinner on shore, and us dyin' wid the heat and thirst in this stinkin' rat's hole. (a chorus of angry growls) 
The Company thinks they'll be no strike. That's why they're givin' this rotten dinner on shore to the ship's officers. 
Well, we'll show them they haven't got us whipped, and never can have as long as we're men enough to demand our rights. We'll hit them a blow they'll never forget. 
How're you goin' to do it, 's what I want to know? 
When the time comes you'll know. 
No betther toime than this night wid no officers on board the auld hooker but the mate and the second engineer. And meanin' no disrespect to Molly Perkins he's nat the wan to sthop us if we once get starthed. 
(easily) We'll get the second engineer out of the way easy enough. He'll be too stunned to do anything. 
He's a civil-spoken bit av a man, is the second, and I'd not loike to see him hurted. 
I'll warn him in time. He won't bother us. 
Ha ha! If he gets funny, dot leedle man, I vill--(makes a gesture with his great hands as if he were breaking a stick across his knee) 
(promptly) No, you won't, Schmidt! Remember that! Every man in this fo'castle has got to promise, no matter what happens, he won't touch the second engineer, or--you can all shift for yourselves as far as I'm concerned, or the I.W.E. either. 
Aye--a dacint little man--Wouldn't hurt a fly, he wouldn't--Who'd wanta mash him?--Shut up, Dutch! etc. (Schmidt is sullenly silent before this criticism.) 
(walking over to Schmidt and laying a hand on his shoulder--fiercely) Ye'll not lay a hand on him, me bucko! 
(defiantly) Iss it you would stop me, was? 
The same--Red O'Rourke. Ye've guessed ut, Dutchy. 
I am not Dutch. I am German. 
'Tis all the same breed av swine, I'm thinkin'. Kape this in your thick skull: If ye lay a finger on the little second engineer, ye deal wid me. 
(jumping to his feet) I am not fraid of you or no Irish, py damn! 
(jumping in between the two men) Here! Here! Stop this nonsense. What chance have you against the Company if you don't fight shoulder to shoulder and stop scrapping among yourselves. Don't you know that's just what the Company would like to see you do, you fools, you! (Schmidt sulkily sits down again.) 
(walking back to his place) I'll see ye again, Dutchy. 
(addressing the crowd--earnestly) If you men want to win the big fight you'll have to put aside your private scraps. Remember if you don't work together, you're licked before you start. I thought Olga Tarnoff had impressed that on your minds at the meeting on shore the other night. 
I 'eard 'er but it fair drove me balmy--sick of 'er silly jossin', I wuz-like one of them blushin' Suffrygette meetings, it wuz. Blimey if any female can stand jawin' at me. Let 'er be 'ome a-nursin' of 'er babies, I says. Men is men and--
(stretching out a long arm and placing a big hand over Cocky's mouth) Will ye be still, ye insect? Or must I choke ye. 'Tis too hot entoirely to listen to your squakin'. 
Never mind the fool, Red. (O'Rourke releases Cocky who is about to continue his outburst when the sound of maudlin singing is heard. As it grows nearer the words can be distinguished.) 
Whiskey is the life of man  Whiskey! O Johnny!
'Tis Hogan comin' back wid his skin full av ale. I wish I had half av ut. Where'd he get the dough, I wonder. 
(appearing in the doorway--a stout, broad-shouldered man) "O whiskey killed my poor aunt Ann.  Whiskey for my Johnny!" (He stands reeling and blinking in the doorway, holding a newspaper in one hand. The others look at him with broad grins. ) 
(genially) Won't ye come in, ye drunken baboon? 
(singing) "Beer, beer, glorious beer!  Fill yourselves right up to here." (waving his newspaper) War! War! Bloody war wid the Dutchmen comin'. 'Tis truth I'm tellin' ye. 'Tis here in black and white. 
(getting up quickly) Gif me dot baper. (snatches it out of Hogan's hand, and, sitting down, commences laboriously to pick out the words) 
(dazedly) Aisy, aisy, me son. Ye'll know all about it soon enough. (He hiccoughs.) When the British navy gets after ye. The war is not yet, the paper says, but 'tis apt to come any day if things kape on the way they are. (angrily) Give me back that paper, ye Dutch swine! (lays his hand roughly on Schmidt's shoulder) 
Oud! (Jumps to his feet and throws Hogan aside. Hogan goes down in a heap.) 
(fiercely) Hit a helpless man, wud ye? (He hits Schmidt. They grapple. Tom and the others rush in and pull them apart.) 
No fightin' in the fo'castle. Out on the for'ard square if you wants to settle it. 
(delighted at the prospect of seeing a fight) Come out and settle it! See who's the better man! Out on the for'ard square! etc. 
Will ye see who's the betther man, Dutchy, or are ye a coward? 
(raging) Come oud! I show you! I show you! (All crowd out the doorway except Tom and Hogan. ) 
(weaving drunkenly toward his bunk--sings) "We are the boys of Wexford." (speaks) 'Tis my fight but no matther. I'm too drunk, God help me. (climbing into his bunk--philosophically) No matther! O'Rourke will bate him. (He falls asleep and is soon snoring. Tom walks up and down impatiently. A moment later Olga enters. She is dressed in a dirty sweater and dungaree jumper, patched dungaree trousers, rough shoes, and has a cap pulled down over her eyes, hiding her hair. Her face and hands are grimed with dirt.) 
Tom! 
(in surprise) Olga! (takes her in his arms and kisses her--pulls the cap from over her face) 
Don't! 
There's no one here. 
Where are they all? 
(disgustedly) Out on the for'ard square fighting as usual. But how do you happen to be here? 
Whitely sent me to warn you. 
When did you see him? 
Not half an hour ago. He had just left the meeting of the union officers. 
What happened at the meeting? 
(contemptuously) Just what we expected. They de-cided not to declare the strike at present. Whitely says they have been bought off by the Companies, every one of them. He himself was offered money by one of the Companies' agents if he would go away for a time and stop his agitating. 
The scoundrels! 
Whitely was wild with rage. He pleaded with them but they wouldn't listen. Finally he told them what he thought of them and resigned his office. (with a smile) They're not liable to forget what he said, I'll bet. 
But didn't they offer some excuse? 
Traitors are always full of excuses. They crawled behind patriotism, said it wouldn't be right. (contemptuously) Right! To call a strike now when beloved Britannia might become involved in a great war. 
What hypocrites! 
(indignantly) Whitely told them that now, above all times, was the moment to strike in all branches of organized labor and thus paralyze the sinews of war. They couldn't see it that way; or rather, with the Companies' money in their pockets, they decided not to see it.
(shaking his head) It looks as if all this war talk would result in something this time. 
Oh, how can they be such idiots! 
I've been thinking of what Hartmann said--that such a war would put back the cause of true liberty fifty years. 
There's no doubt of that. (with deep feeling) Oh, it can't happen. Men can't be such fools--after all they've been taught, all we've preached to them, all the Socialists have done--
You forget they've been taught patriotism at home, in government schools along with their first reader. It's in their hearts, as Hartmann said. You can't make them forget it by reasoning. 
You're right. (impulsively) Ah, I'll bring up our child with a soul freed from all adorations of Gods and governments if I have to live alone on a mountain top to do it. 
(quickly) Our child? 
(avoiding his look--betraying confusion--hurriedly) Why do you pick me up like that? You know I was only stating a supposition. (hurriedly) You haven't asked me how I sneaked on board. 
No need to. The master-at-arms on the gangway is one of us. Even if he'd recognized you he wouldn't have stopped you. 
But isn't my disguise good? 
(with a grin) You look exactly like--like an adorable woman with a dirty face. 
(disappointedly) Oh. (But this time she allows herself to be kissed.) 
(after a pause) Now that the unions have backed down it's up to us. 
Yes. 
Did Whitely say anything about the dynamite? 
That's what he asked me to tell you--that he had gone to Sims' shop to get it and would be down immediately. He wanted you to be prepared. 
(frowning) Tonight's the best time, if it must be done. All the officers are on shore at that dinner the Company is giving. The curse of it is that the only engineer left on the boat is the very one--
Your father? 
Yes. 
He hasn't found out that you're on the boat? 
No. 
You think he'll make trouble? 
Not trouble in the sense you mean. But he's sure to be pottering around in the engine room petting his engines, and--I'll have to explain, threaten, get him out of danger somehow. (irritably) I wish it could have been some time when he wasn't on duty. I could use force if it was anyone else. 
There won't be anyone else in the engine room? 
All the men are with us. 
(anxiously) Do you know anything about dynamite? 
Only what Whitely has told me. 
(with growing agitation) Isn't it liable to go off pre-maturely sometimes? 
I suppose so; but there isn't much danger of that as long as one is careful, Whitely says. 
As long as one is careful. You will be careful, won't you, dear? 
(struck by her tone) Of course I will. 
(after a pause--with growing embarrassment) Whitely said that he--don't you think it might be better--more sure--if Whitely were to do it? 
(looks keenly at her for a moment--she turns away--slowly) So you still think I'm a quitter, do you? 
No, no, it isn't that. 
You must or you wouldn't propose such a thing. 
(lamely) I was only thinking the results would be more certain if a man who knew all about dynamite--
(shortly) I know enough for the purpose. 
(impulsively) I wish you'd let him do it. I don't know why but I've a premonition, a fear--
(going to her and putting his hands on her shoulders, and looking into her eyes) Olga, what's the matter? Tell me. 
(avoiding his look) Nothing at all. 
Yes, there is. Ever since we arrived in Liverpool you've been different, changed from the old Olga. What is it? Tell me.
Nothing. It's only your imagination. 
No, it isn't. (tenderly) You know I love you. 
Yes, yes, you must! 
And you love me, don't you? 
Yes, I do, I do! 
Then tell me. 
I can't. There's nothing to tell. 
Olga! In New York you would have scorned me if I had shown the slightest sign of shirking; and now you are advising me to--
Conditions have changed since then. 
What conditions? 
Oh, everything is different now. 
How? 
(haltingly) It doesn't seem--I don't think--(desperately) I don't think it's going to do any good, this dynamiting. I don't believe it will have the effect Hartmann expected. 
(quietly) Why? 
(wildly) Don't ask me so many questions. It's just what I think. 
I should say the present conditions of things demanded drastic action on our part more than ever. We have this coming war to fight against now. The strike must be started. 
(trying to collect herself) Yes, perhaps you're right. Then all the more reason for your letting Whitely do the dynamiting. It can't fail, then. 
You know that's impossible. Whitely is well known. He'll be suspected as it is. He must be able to furnish an ironclad alibi. You see it's impossible, don't you? 
(dully) Yes. 
And you know you'd despise me for a quitter if I gave up at this point. It's my duty. I've got to do it. (resolutely) You needn't worry about my lack of ability. I know exactly what to do. (to reassure her) They'll never find out who did it--unless some of the men squeal on me. 
(sitting down on one of the benches--sadly) Ah--unless! 
They're real men, all of them. They won't squeal.
I wouldn't trust them. 
Even if it is known that I'm the one, the men only know me as Tom Donovan; and Whitely has arranged a hiding place where even the devil himself couldn't find me. 
But you'd never be able to come out. They'd always be looking for you. 
(coming over to her) What you've been saying doesn't sound like you at all, Olga. There is something the matter. Please tell me--like a good comrade. 
I've overtaxed my strength, I think. I feel--run down. That's all. 
(tenderly) Poor little girl. 
(wildly--breaking away from him) Don't pity me. I don't want pity. I want to be someplace all alone--and think. 
When we get back we'll both take a trip into the country. I know a place--a farm in the Jersey hills--nice people--be glad to have us. We'll go there. 
(slowly giving way to the dream) That would be wonderful. I feel as if I could lie for days in the cool grass, looking up at the sky--and dreaming. (coming back to the present with a start) But you may never--(Her eyes widen with horror.) 
(putting his arm around her) Olga, you mustn't have such thoughts. 
(half-sobbing, her head on his shoulder) Tom, please let Whitely do it. 
Olga! 
If you knew--if I could tell you--why I ask this--(regaining control of herself, walks up and down fighting down her emotion. Tom looks at her wonderingly. Finally she speaks quite calmly.) You're right. You're the only one who can do it. I've been making a fool of myself. 
(cheerfully) I'm glad you see it that way again. I couldn't quit. I've promised the men--and you would despise me later. 
(Whitely enters quietly and stands for a moment in the doorway looking at them. He is a swarthy, dark-eyed, bull-necked, powerfully-built man of about 35. He wears a black mustache and is dressed in a dirty suit of dungarees.) 
(seeing him) Here's Whitely now.
(shaking hands with him) I've heard the bad news. 
(his eyes flashing) The yellow cowards! They sold themselves like the slaves they are--and I told them so. The meeting nearly broke up in a riot. Where are all the men? 
Watching a fight in the for'ard square. O'Rourke and Schmidt are at it. I stopped them once but--(He shrugs his shoulders.) 
(grimly) The war has commenced already, eh? 
It can't last much longer. They'll be back soon. 
Before they come back I've more bad news for you. 
What? 
There'll be no dynamiting. 
(in spite of herself--joyfully) Ah! 
You mean? 
Sims, the man in whose shop the stuff is hid-den, has been arrested. 
On suspicion? 
I don't know whether it has anything to do with this affair or not. I didn't go around to learn particulars. I was afraid they might nab me. I went home and put on these clothes and slipped down here to tell you. 
Then it's all off--the whole thing? 
That part of it, at least. 
And I had promised the men--What can we do? 
If there was only some way to prevent the San Francisco from sailing tomorrow! If we could only start a little strike of our own on board this ship and keep her here, I know the crowd from the other ships would join in. It only needs a spark and the strike will spread everywhere--unions or no unions. Haven't you some influence with the men? 
I did have. 
You did have? 
I've been losing it lately. They've been waiting for me to do something, and they're beginning to think it was all talk. 
Then now is your time to show them. 
Yes; but how? 
How? Can't you think of something, man? You know a ship better than I do.
I'm trying to think. 
If we can throw the San Francisco off her schedule--delay the mails. That will hit the Company hard. They stake their reputation on this ship. Think of the encouragement it will give to the men. 
I've a plan, but it means mutiny. 
What of it? So much the better. It means a fight and that's what we're looking for. It means the consolidation of the men under the International Workers, and the destruction of their petty unions. If you can only get this thing going here, I'll guarantee to keep it going. 
(resolutely) I'll do my best. 
(enthusiastically) Good! 
(apprehensively) What are you going to do, Tom? 
If I can get them to follow me, I'll prevent the ship from sailing on time all right. When the men come in I leave it to you to tell them the way the union leaders have betrayed them. If that doesn't make them fighting mad, then they've lost their spirit and there's nothing to be done. 
I'll rouse them--by telling the truth--just what happened. 
They're coming now. (noise of voices from without) 
Hadn't Olga better go ashore? 
(turning to her) Yes, Olga, I think you--
(vehemently) Why should I? They've heard me speak. They all know I'm their friend. 
(protestingly) But--
(firmly) I insist upon staying. (Tom shrugs his shoul-ders helplessly.) 
Oh, there's no harm, I suppose. (The crowd of excited stokers pour in the doorway. In their admiring midst is the conqueror O'Rourke, stripped to the waist, his face bloody, one eye closed, his swollen lips parted in a triumphant grin. Schmidt is not among them.) 
Gawd blimey, wot a swipe! 
That last punch knocked him cold. (All the stokers lower their voices and cease their admiring oaths when they see Olga and recognize her. She nods calmly from one to the other of them.) 
Give me me shirt, ye scuts. Am I fit appearin' to be in the presence av a lady--(with a comical glance at Olga's pants) Aven if she is a man. (One of the crowd hands him his shirt which he puts on.) 
Where's Schmidt? 
The other Dutchies are pourin' water on him. 
(jovially) Down wid the Dutch and success to the British army--the Irish part av ut I mane. 
Men, Whitely has just come from the meeting of the officers of your union. He wants to tell you what happened there. 
(in a loud aside to the man next to him) Glad it ain't one of them blarsted Suffrygette speeches we've got to 'ear. (with a withering glance at Olga) Wearin' of men's clothes naw. 
Spake up, Whitely. We know it's the truth you'll be tellin' us. 
(stands on one of the benches. The men crowd around him.) You all know me. (chorus of assent) You know I've always fought my damndest for you whenever I've had the chance. The Companies have had me pinched, and they've tried to buy me off only a few weeks ago; but they've never been able to shut my mouth, and I'm still here fighting them. 
Divil a lie, ye arr. Three cheers for Whitely, boys! 
(hurriedly interposing) Not now, not now, O'Rourke! We've got to be quiet if we want to do anything. 
Donovan's right. We can't let them suspect there's anything up. 
Right ye arr, and I'm an auld fool. (gleefully) If there's throuble comin"tis Red O'Rourke'll be in the midst av ut. (All the stokers show pleased expectation.) 
I've just come from the meeting and I want to say this about the officers of the union, of which I was one before I resigned tonight--They're traitors to you, every rotten one of them! (an angry growl from the crowd) They've decided to let the Companies go on oppressing you without your saying a word. They've decided not to strike! (a chorus of angry exclamations from the stokers)
And what reason do they give, s'what I wants to know. 
It's not the reason they give that counts. They say it isn't the right time to strike but they're liars and they know it. They know this is the grandest opportunity to get their rights the workers on the ships have ever had. Never before have you had the same chance of waging a successful war against the thieving ship corporations. 
'Ear! 'Ear! 
True for ye, thieves they arr, iviry divil's wan av thim. 
The officers of your union knew they were lying when they gave that excuse for not striking. It wasn't the real reason. The real reason was that every rotten one of them had some of the Company's dirty money in his pocket. They had sold you to the Companies. The Companies had bought every cowardly one of them--and I told them so! (He is interrupted by a clamor of rage from all sides.) 
The dirthy blackguards! 
How do you know all this, Whitely? 
How do I know it? Because a week ago, when I was still an officer of your union, one of the agents of the Companies came to me and offered me one hundred pounds--five hundred dollars--if I would betray you. And do you know what I told him? I told him to go to hell! (expressions of enthusiastic approval from all sides) 
That's the talkin'. 
But the others didn't tell him that--not them. They took the money and sold themselves, and all of you into the bargain. That's why I resigned tonight as an officer of your union. I wouldn't lower myself by being associated with such a pack of yellow curs. 
Dahn with the bleedin' swine, says I! 
Let me catch wan av thim face to face. (He brandishes his fists.) 
Are you going to stand for this treatment? 
No, no! 
Then listen to Tom Donovan. He's one of you, a stoker himself. He represents the International Workers, the only organization true to the interests of the workers. He'll tell you what to do; and if you're real men with guts you'll follow him. (He gets down amid acclamations. Tom gets up in his place.) 
(in determined tones) Are you willing to follow me? 
To the divil and back, me boy. 
Yes, yes. 
Then we'll start the strike here and teach them a lesson. If we just went ashore on strike they'd get a crew of scabs tomorrow morning and sail on time. We want to make the Company pay for the way they've treated us. We want to keep the San Francisco from sailing tomorrow. 
(in his element now) We'll sink the auld scow. 
I had a plan by which I alone was going to put the engines on the bum, but, through no fault of mine, the plan fell through. Now I've got to have your help. Will you help me? 
Yes! Yes! 
Then we'll go to the stokehold and get the men there to join us. We'll pull out the fires. We'll get splice bars and shovels and everything else that's handy. We'll go to the engine room and smash everything we can. We may not be able to do any permanent damage, but, by God, we'll keep the San Francisco from sailing tomorrow! (a chorus of delighted approval) 
And I'll go to the other ships and get their men to join you. 
Come on then, those of you who are with me. 
We're all av us wid you! (They crowd toward the door, waiting for Tom to lead the way. Olga steps to his side.) 
Where are you going, Olga? 
With you. 
(sternly) You can't! 
I must! (She throws her arms about his neck.) 
(kisses her) It's impossible. Take her ashore, will you, Whitely? (to the grinning stokers who stand waiting for him) Come on! (He goes out. The men crowd after him. Olga covers her face with her hands. A sob shakes her shoulders.) 
(as he is going out the door) It's easy. There's no one on watch but old Molly Perkins.
(gently--after a pause) We'd better go, Olga. 
(End of Scene One)
SCENE II
SCENE--The engine room of the San Francisco facing the engines. Perkins is discovered in his working clothes, his face and hands smeared with grease. He stands back, surveying the engines lovingly, humming a tune with a satisfied air. He comes forward and rubs off a speck of dust with the sleeve of his coat; then stands back and watches the oiler, Murphy, who is busy above.
That will do, I guess, Murphy. 
Yes, sir. (He comes down and stands beside Perkins. ) 
Everything look right to you, Murphy. 
Right as rain, sir. 
(rubbing his hands with satisfaction) That's good, that's very good indeed. 
Yes, sir. 
(his admiring eyes taking in every detail of his pets) Beauties, aren't they. 
Fine engines, sir. 
And old Henderson of the Empress tried to tell me that his were better--just imagine! You've worked on the Empress, haven't you, Murphy? 
Yes, sir. 
Well--er--hm--do you think her engines are as good as these? 
(diplomatically) Not on your life, sir. A regular, rattlin' bunch o' junk they are, it's the truth. 
(pleased) Oh come, Murphy, that's exaggeration, now, isn't it? They're very good engines, I'm told; but not as good as these. Haven't we beaten the Empress nearly every time? Isn't that proof enough, eh, Murphy? 
Proof enough, yes sir. 
I wish I could make Henderson see it. He's so pig-headed. (a slight pause) You might as well go, Murphy. 
(gladly) Thank you, sir. (prepares to go up)
(uncertainly) Er—hm--there isn't any trouble among the men, is there? 
(closing up) I don't know, sir. 
Er--surely--hm--surely you wouldn't think of striking, would you, Murphy--I mean you seem satisfied. 
It all depends on what the union says, sir. 
Hmm--yes, yes, of course, the union. You--er-you don't belong to the I.W.--? 
The I.W., sir? No, sir. 
You know something about them, don't you? 
Yes, sir. 
Well--er--do you think a young man--say 22-would come to any harm belonging to them? 
Couldn't say, sir. 
(with a troubled sigh) I hope not, indeed I hope not. They say there's some of them been making speeches in Liverpool. 
(cautiously) Don't know, sir. 
All right, Murphy, you can go. I'll stay here for awhile. 
Good night, sir. (He climbs up.) 
Good night. (He walks up and down the engine room with a troubled air. A moment later the clattering sound of running steps is beard on the iron stairs and Jack, an engineer's apprentice, hurries down to where Perkins is standing. He is a shock-headed, freckle-faced youth, wildly excited and breathless.) 
(breathlessly) Mr.--Mr. Perkins! (He gasps.) 
(with nervous solicitude) There, there, get your breath. What under the sun brings you down here? 
They're coming! 
Who are coming? What do you mean? Have you had the nightmare? 
N--no. I wasn't asleep. I was listening. 
Listening? 
Outside the door of the fo'castle. 
What fo'castle? 
The firemen's fo'castle. I heard everything they said, him and her. 
Him? What him? 
The one they call Donovan.
Did you say her? Do you mean there was a woman in the fo'castle? 
Yes, sir. 
You must have been dreaming. 
No, I wasn't, sir, honest I wasn't. I saw her plain as anything--even if she was dressed up in men's clothes. 
Dressed in men's clothes! Are you sure? 
Yes, sir; I am, sir. 
Why didn't the man-at-arms stop her from getting on board? (unable to believe) You're sure you saw her, Jack? 
Yes, sir; and I know who she is too. I heard her make a speech last Wednesday. She's that I.W. woman who's been talking about striking. 
(frightened) I.W. woman! 
Her and that Tom Donovan were talking while the men was out fighting on the for'ard square. I heard them talking about dynamite--
(terrified) Dynamite! 
The Chief told me to listen whenever I got a chance; and I was outside where no one could see me. They were talking about dynamite. 
Good heavens! 
-Then another fellow came in and they all talked low, but I heard them say dynamite again.
(as if the name fascinated him) Dynamite! 
Then all the stokers came back and the last fellow made a speech to them about the unions and strikes and things and they all got crazy mad. 
Strikes! Unions! What are they going to do? (helplessly) I wish the chief was here. 
Then this Donovan fellow makes a speech and tells them to smash the engines--
(indignation showing beneath his terror) Smash the engines! No, he couldn't have urged them to do that. 
Yes, he did, sir. I heard him plain as can be. 
That Donovan fellow must be a rascal. 
Then they all rushed outa the fo'castle to get splicebars and shovels in the stokehold, like Donovan told 'em, to smash everything with.
Smash the engines! (He walks up and down.) No, no that's impossible. They wouldn't do that. (growing more and more indignant) Only scoundrels would do such a thing. 
Then I ran down here fast as I could to tell you. (more and more excited) They'll be down here in a few minutes, sir. You better look out. 
(in an agony of perplexity) What shall I do? I do wish the Chief was here. 
Probably they'll bring the dynamite with them. 
(aghast) Do you think they really mean to blow up the engines? 
-They're crazy mad, sir. They'd do anything. 
Dynamite these engines! (resolutely) No, I'll never permit them to do that. I couldn't. (miserably) I wish the chief was here. 
You better give them a wide berth, sir. They're fighting mad. You better go up on deck, sir, before they come. 
(paying no attention) Blow up those engines! (his anger rising) The blackguards! 
(glancing around apprehensively) Better hurry, sir, or it'll be too late. They'll be here soon. Come up on deck, sir. 
(goes toward the stairs irresolutely, then stops, then resolutely) No, I'll stay here. They mustn't harm the engines. I must see to that. 
But how, sir? 
(helplessly) I don't know, yet. (bursting into rage) The scoundrels. The scoundrels! Why can't they go on strike and leave the engines alone? (suddenly goes to his uniform coat which hangs on one side and takes a revolver from the pocket and holds it in his hand gingerly) The Chief told me to carry this, in case of trouble. (holding it out to Jack) Is it loaded? I can't tell. I've never touched one of the things before.  
(takes the revolver and breaks it--then hands it back) Yes, sir, it's all loaded. 
I might scare them off with this. 
(astonished) You're not going to wait here till they come, sir? 
Yes, of course. I can't let them touch the engines, you know, can I? (furiously) The scoundrels!
(his eyes wide with surprised admiration) Gee, you've got some nerve, sir. 
You better run up and tell the mate to go ashore and get the police--and tell him to send someone to the Chief and ask what I better do. 
(reluctantly) They're crazy, sir; and it's a hundred to one against you. 
(sharply) Hurry now and do what I told you. (Jack runs up the stairs. Perkins looks wildly around, terrified at finding himself alone--takes up his stand with his back to the engines, his knees trembling, his expression one of hopeless indecision. A moment later a crowd of the stokers enter the engine room. Many of them carry shovels, steel bars, etc. ) 
(weakly--the revolver hidden behind his back) What do you men want here? 
Blimey, if it ain't old Molly Perkins. 
(derisively) What do you want down here, 's what we wants to know. 
Better sling yer 'ook aht of 'ere, Molly. 
(dazed with terror at the threatening attitude of the crowd) What do you want here? 
We wants to repair yer engines for yer, that's what. (a burst of laughter from the crowd) 
Tell him the air's better on deck.  Push him outa the road!  Let's get to work! 
Yes, the blarsted hofficers'll be 'ere in 'arf a mo. 
(angrily) Fetch him a crack! 
Outa the way, Molly!  Git up on deck!  We don't wanta hurt you, Molly!  Where's Tom Donovan? He said he'd fix him.  Hell! Let's do something!  Where's Tom? 
Kick the little runt outa the way! (The crowd move threateningly toward Perkins. ) 
(protesting weakly) Wait a minute, men. I want to say something to you. 
Shut up!
Let him talk if he wants to!  Hurry up, Molly!  To hell with him! Let's do something!  No bloody speeches! 
If yet got somethin' to say be quick about it; but I tells yer it ain't no use. We got a purpose in comin' here and we ain't goin' to weaken. (to the crowd) Are we, boys? (a negative growl from the crowd) 
'Urry, Molly, yer not standin' for Parliament. 
Does--does this mean--you're on strike? 
Righto yer bloody well are, guv'nor. 
That's what it means, Molly Perkins. 
(coming in from behind and pushing through the crowd) Lave me pass, ye scuts! 
Where's Tom? 
Pershuadin' some av the white-livered wans in the stokehold to jine the party. I was for mashin' in their faces but he said no. (He stands in front of Perkins.) Well if it ain't me auld friend, Molly Perkins. The top av the evenin' to ye, Molly. T'was to see ye were not hurted by these rough bhoys here Tom sent me ahead av him. 
(pleadingly) You're not going to harm the engines, are you, O'Rourke? (a roar of angry laughter from the crowd) 
(winking at them) Indade not; how cud ye think ut? We've been commishuned by the Company to mend them a bit. T'was thought they needed fixin'. (laughter from crowd) And now, me little man, ye'd best be goin' up on deck to take a bit av fresh air. We've work to do, and 'tis no fit place for the loikes av you. (taking a step toward Perkins) Will ye go up on deck wid your own legs, or shall I carry ye? 
(producing the revolver from behind his back--in a frenzy of fear) Don't you--don't you touch me! (The crowd shrink back involuntarily.) 
Look out, Red, it might go off. 
Put down that pisthol! It makes me nervous. Your hand is tremblin' so ye might pull the thrigger unbeknownst. I'll not touch ye yet awhile. (Perkins lowers the revolver.) 
'Eres a bloody mess!
(scratching his head) What I'm to do, I dunno. Were it not for what Tom Donovan made us promise I'd not be afraid av that squirt gun av his. 
Here's Tom, now. (They make way for Tom, who hurries through the crowd and confronts his father. He carries an iron bar on his shoulder. Perkins looks at him as if he could not believe his eyes. His arm falls to his side. He seems to crumple up, grow small and pitiful. ) 
Tom! 
(quietly) You'd better go up on deck. 
Tom! Tom! Tom! Oh, who could think--(He chokes with his emotion. The crowd murmurs: "Molly knows him!" etc. ) 
(with quiet contempt) You'd better go up on deck where you'll be safe; and give me that revolver. (He reaches out his hand for it. Perkins seems about to hand it over when one of the stokers reaches out with an iron bar and smashes the face of one of the steam gauges. Perkins starts as if coming out of a dream, stiffens, a look of resolution coming into his face. He backs away from Tom.) 
(pointing his revolver in the direction of the man who smashed the gauge--in a firm voice) Here, stop that! I can't permit that! 
(surprised) Will you go up on deck, now? 
(firmly) No, not until you have promised me not to touch the engines. (breaking down for a second) Tom, how could you? What have I done to you? 
(coldly) We won't discuss personal matters. I'm a stranger to you. I'm Tom Donovan. 
(horrified) You--Donovan--that scoundrel. Don't talk like that, TOM--to me--please don't talk like that to me! (The hand holding the revolver drops to his side. He is crushed.) 
I've urged these men to revenge their wrongs at the Company's hands and we're going to do it. 
No, no, I won't permit it! Not the engines! (a threatening murmur from the crowd) 
You've done your best to help him, Donovan. If he want to act foolish then let him take the consequences, 's what I say.
Smash his damn head in! 
(whirling around--fiercely) Who said that? (No one answers--threateningly.) If anyone touches the second engineer--
(sneeringly) Who is he--your old man? 
He is my father; and I won't have him touched! 
(wildly) Tom! Tom! (murmurs of astonishment from the crowd; "Molly's his father! His name ain't Donovan. Maybe he's stallin'." etc. ) 
Ain't ut the divil's own luck now--wid all the other engineers we cud bate to a jelly! 
(pleadingly) Please go up on deck, father. 
Will you promise--
No. For the last time will you go up on deck or must I have you carried there by force? 
(weakening for a second) Don't, Tom! Don't talk to me like that! (The crowd push forward, jeering. Perkins flushes with anger--points his revolver at the crowd.) Don't come too near, do you hear me! (The men stop awed by the resolution in his tones.) 
(with angry contempt) What rot! What will you do if they do come nearer? 
(bravely) I'll shoot the first man who touches the engines. 
(looks at his father for a moment with wonder--then laughs mockingly) Oh, you will? (He steps carelessly toward the engines, gripping the iron bar with both hands.) 
(frenziedly) Tom! Don't! (lowers the revolver) 
(pausing for a moment--laughs) I knew you were only bluffing. 
(lifting the revolver again and pointing it in Tom's direction--in dead tones as if he didn't know what he was saying) I'll shoot the first one who touches the engines. 
(laughing contemptuously) Well, shoot then! (With his iron bar he smashes the face of a gauge. There is a tinkle of glass followed by the report of a revolver. The expression on Tom's face turns to one of bewildered amazement. His knees sag and he pitches forward on his face and lies still.) 
(dully) Stand back, or I'll shoot! (The crowd push away from him in horror, saying to each other: "He's killed him! Dead as hell! His own son!") 
(loud with fear) Let's get outa this! (A sort of panic seizes the men. They rush from the engine room fighting with each other to be the first out. O'Rourke alone stands his ground.) 
(looking down at Tom's body in horror) He's hit in the head! (to Perkins in hoarse voice) Ye've murdered him, I'm tellin' you! (Olga comes running down the ladder.) 
(The revolver slips from his nerveless grasp and clatters on the floor. He looks down at Tom with eyes full of a dull amazement; then turns to O'Rourke with an air of stupid bewilderment.) But I pointed it over his head, O'Rourke, I pointed it--over his head! 
(The Curtain Falls)
ACT IV
SCENE--A private room in a hospital in Liverpool--three weeks or so later. A dazzlingly-white, sunshiny room with a large, open, white-curtained window in the middle of left wall. Near the window, a rocking chair with cushions and a wicker table. In the rear, a white iron bed placed so that its occupant faces the audience. To the right of bed, a door. On the left of bed, a small stand with glass shelves on which are medicine bottles, glasses, etc. Two straight-backed chairs stand against the right wall. 
Tom is discovered sitting in the rocking chair, gazing out of the window with listless, half-closed eyes. His head is bandaged and his face is pale and thin. He wears a light colored bathrobe over his pajamas, and slippers. 
A nurse is just finishing making up the bed. She is a short, stout, fresh-looking woman in her late thirties.
(coming over to Tom) You must go back to bed now, Mr. Donovan. (Tom looks at her blankly but does not answer or move. The nurse gives an irritated sigh.) Bed! Bed! (She points to the bed.) Can't you understand? (She puts her hand in under his arm. He gets out of the chair, slowly, mechanically, like a man in a dream. She supports him over to the bed, takes off his bathrobe and slippers, and tucks him in. He lies quietly, staring up at the ceiling. The doctor enters. He is an elderly man with grey mustache and beard.) 
Well? Any change? 
No, Doctor, not a word out of him. 
(looking keenly at Tom) He seems much better, physically. 
He's getting stronger all the time. He slept well last night and ate a hearty breakfast. 
Good! Any temperature? 
No, Doctor. 98.6 the last time I took it. 
Perfectly normal, then. He'll be able to leave us soon. That trepanning saved his life. (shakes his head sadly) But I'm afraid his reason is gone. 
You don't think he'll ever be right in the head again? 
I'm afraid not--like a little child for the rest of his life. 
How awful! It would have been better if--(She makes a suggestive gesture.) 
(solemnly) You cannot set yourself against the laws of God and men without being punished. This is his punishment. 
And theirs? 
-Theirs?
All those who cared anything about him--his family. 
He doesn't seem to have any relatives alive. It's a pity. He might have been different if he had had the influence of a home. As it is, there's no trace of who he is or where he came from. He's one of those strange human strays one sometimes runs across. 
Didn't some say the engineer who shot him--was his father? 
Just a sensational fairy tale. It was absolutely discredited by the Ocean Company and by Mr. Perkins himself. Why, they're no more alike than--than you and I are. 
But the Anarchist woman whom they arrested and let go for lack of evidence--Olga something-or-other--She evidently cares about him. I was talking to her yesterday downstairs. She's been around every day to try and see him. 
(shrugging his shoulders) She may care--in the way such people do. She was probably his mistress. 
She told me they were engaged to be married. 
(with a yawn) Perhaps they were; but I thought their tribe went in for free love. (suddenly) Now that you remind me of it, she's waiting downstairs--she and that rascal, Whitely. I told her I might let her see him. (indicating Tom) She might as well know his state first as last. I think I'll try an experiment. The sight of her might bring him back to himself.One can never tell in such cases. Will you go down and ask them to cone up? 
Yes, Doctor. (goes out)
(goes over and stands beside bed. Tom is still motionless, staring at the ceiling. The doctor speaks in sharp tones.) San Francisco! Engine room! Olga! Strike! (Tom does not move but turns and stares at the doctor blankly.) 
(turning away) He's gone, poor chap! (He goes to the window and stands looking out.) 
(entering) This way, please. (Olga enters followed by Whitely. Her face is weary and drawn, with dark circles in under the eyes. The doctor turns around and watches keenly the scene which follows.) 
Tom! (She goes quickly to bed and leans over and kisses him, hiding her face on his shoulder.) Ah, how good it is to see you looking so well and your old self again--(Tom pushes her away. He is staring at her blankly. She looks at his expressionless face in horror for a moment.) Tom! Tom! Speak to me! (Dead silence. She continues in tones of anguish) Tom! Don't you know me? I love you, Tom! It's Olga! Olga! 
(slowly--childishly mimicking her voice) Olga! Olga! (He turns his eyes away from her and stares at the ceiling. She shrinks away from the bed, hiding her face in her bands.) 
(with satisfaction) Ah, he spoke. (comes over to bed) 
First words I've ever heard him say. 
(studying Tom keenly) He spoke; but it was only the mimicking of a child. There was no recognition, no intelligence behind the words. I'm afraid--(turns from the bed with a hopeless gesture) 
(taking her hands away from her face--to the doctor) So--this was what you meant when you said his health would return but he would never be the same again! 
Yes. 
(in agonized tones) Ah, why didn't you tell me? 
(coldly) I hoped you would understand. 
And will he always be--like this? 
(evidently voicing an opinion he does not feel) Oh no, not necessarily. With care and the proper surroundings he will learn to speak again. 
Learn to speak again! 
He may even recover a part of his reason and memory.
You are saying things you don't believe. 
(sharply) Don't jump at such hasty conclusions, Miss--er--Miss Tarnoff. The best of us are never absolutely sure in cases like this. 
(pinning him down) But you don't think he will ever recover. 
(stiffly) I must decline to answer such questions except to the immediate members of the man's family, if he has any. 
(fiercely) I love him and he--loved me! 
(moved in spite of himself) I understand from Miss Brown that you and he were engaged to be married? 
(with a momentary show of hesitation) Yes. 
Ah then, it is just as well to tell you that there is little hope for his reason--but--there is always a hope! 
(despairingly) Oh! 
(looking at his watch) I must be on my rounds. Perhaps if we leave the two of you alone with him--he knew you both well--it might--. We who are strangers to him may constitute an unfavorable influence. You might try to rouse some emotion, some memory. (to nurse) Come, Miss Brown. (They go out. Whitely moves over to window and looks out.) 
(going to the bedside) Tom! (His eyes fix on her face but there is no expression in them.) Tom, don't you remember me? (She tries to kiss him, but he draws away from her with a frightened whimper--heartbrokenly) Tom, don't you remember the happy days together--in our flat? And Hartmann? And Enwright? Surely you remember them! And the engine room on the San Francisco, and your father, and how you were shot? (His eyes turn away from her face and he stares at the ceiling.) Tom! (her voice breaking) Say you know me! I love you, Tom. It's Olga who is speaking to you! Olga! Olga! 
(mimicking her childishly) Olga! Olga! 
(turning from the bed--in a dead voice) It's no use. 
Shall I try? 
It's no use. Look at his eyes. They look at you and they don't see you. Oh, it's horrible! (She shudders.)
(standing at the foot of the bed--in loud, commanding tones) Look here, Tom, you haven't forgotten me, have you? (A look of terror comes over Tom's face. He whimpers softly and draws the clothes up as if he were going to hide his head under them.) 
Stop, Whitely. He doesn't recognize you and your loud voice frightens him. See! He is going to hide his head in under the clothes. (tenderly) Just like a child, a little child. (She goes and puts her hand on Tom's forehead. He immediately grows quiet.) 
And to think of his being that way all his life! Good God! 
Don't! I can't bear to think of it. 
Was it true, what you told the doctor--that he and you were engaged? 
No; we were just comrades. 
I see. 
I had to tell them something which would give me a claim on him in their eyes. (bitterly) That I love him doesn't count. 
Then when he is able to be taken away, you--? 
I shall take care of him. 
Are you able to?--I mean, financially. 
I have a little in the bank, the remnant of what my father left me. It will be enough to keep us for a time--till I get work. And I am sure the comrades in New York will do all they can to help, when they know. 
But his father? 
(fiercely) His father has no claim on him now. 
He may not think so. 
No, the coward will be only too glad to get rid of such a living reproach. (scornfully) The Company has promoted him, made him a chief engineer, presented him with a gold watch for his heroism! 
Strange the papers didn't say more about Tom being his son. They must have heard. All the men knew it. 
His father denied it himself, and, then, I suppose, the Company had it hushed up for the hero's sake. 
Yes, that must be it.
(scornfully) And then the papers gushed on about his sorrow! How he had hired a special room in the hospital for his victim! They would be sentimentalizing about it yet if the war hadn't broken out and given their silly patriotism an opportunity to slop over into pages of words. 
It's just as well the San Francisco episode is forgotten. What a rotten fizzle it all was! 
(slowly) Yes, a rotten fizzle. 
And the attempted strike! What a fiasco! 
And now all your brave strikers are waving flags and singing "God save the King!" 
(frowning) This isn't an ordinary war, Olga. You can't condemn it on England's part. 
(looking at him searchingly for a moment) You, too! 
(flushing) What do you mean? 
I mean that you are one of those Hartmann spoke of when he said that the ideal of the new freedom had interested their brains, but had not touched their hearts. 
You're unjust, Olga. No one has fought for the I.W.E. more than I have or has suffered more for it! 
(with a little sad smile--looking over at the bed) Suffered? 
(shame-facedly) I had forgotten. 
Here we are arguing about war and the I.W.E.--as if we were alone. (She goes over to bed and puts her hand on Tom's forehead.) Poor Tom! Forgotten already! 
I wonder if his father is still on the San Fran-cisco. She docks this morning. 
I suppose so. The papers said he wasn't to receive his new position till some boat they're overhauling gets out of dry dock. (She comes away from bed.) 
He'll be up here, then. 
(fiercely) I hope he does come. They told him before he left that Tom was sure to get well. They wanted to get rid of him. He'll know now how true his aim was. 
You think he'll let you take Tom? He has the right, you know. 
He must! He must! Do you think I would let him have Tom after he has done his best to murder him? Never!
You might not be able to prevent it. 
He can't refuse when he knows--when I tell him--(She stops abruptly with a frightened glance at Whitely.) 
(curiously) What? 
Why it must be so. 
This means giving up all your I.W.E. work, doesn't it? 
I will still do all I can. Even if it did mean giving up everything else in the world I would do it gladly. (proudly) For I love him! He went to death or worse for me, not the I.W.E. I see that now. He was only a great big boy and he followed blindly where I led him. (choking with her emotion) That is what makes it so hard. I realize it was all through me--this--all my fault. I owe him a lifetime of reparation. 
(looking at Tom compassionately) It's well he has someone, poor old chap! 
I had a foreboding of misfortune to him that night in the fo'castle. I had my moment of womanly weakness when, ideals or no ideals, I wanted to save the man I loved. I thought you were going to bring the dynamite, and I implored him to step out, to quit, as he said, and let you destroy the engines. 
I wanted him to let me do it. 
I knew that; and I was afraid the dynamite would explode prematurely, or something of the sort. 
(with a grim smile) It was perfectly right for me to blow up, eh? 
I was only thinking of saving him; I didn't care how. But he wouldn't. He thought I would despise him if he failed in his mission. 
And you would have--afterwards. 
You don't understand. I love him. 
(knocks and enters--looks from one to the other) He hasn't recognized you? 
No. 
The engineer, Perkins, is coming up. 
(fiercely) Ah! 
Then I'll be going. 
And I'll stay.
I'll come back for you in, say, a quarter of an hour, Olga? 
Yes. (Whitely goes out.) Has the Doctor told him about Tom? 
Yes. He's all broken up, poor little man, but he insisted on seeing him. (The nurse indicates Tom.) He told the doctor that it was true what they were saying--that this really is his son. 
Ah. (Perkins enters accompanied by the doctor. Perkins is bowed down by grief. He is sobbing and holds a handkerchief to his eyes.) 
See if he knows you. 
(at foot of bed--faintly) Tom! (then louder) Tom! (Tom turns his eyes and looks at his father blankly, without recognition. Perkins puts the handkerchief to his eyes and turns away.) 
(shaking his head) Not a gleam of recognition. (turning to Olga) You were unsuccessful? 
Yes. 
(to Perkins) You know Miss--er--Miss Tarnoff, the fiancee of your son? 
(looking at Olga--timidly) Is this--Olga? 
(coldly) Yes. 
And you and Tom--were to be--married? 
Yes. (to the doctor) Would you mind leaving Mr. Perkins and myself alone for a few minutes? I have something to say to him. And we might (indicating the form in the bed) try again together. 
(with a shrug of his shoulders at the uselessness of such efforts) Certainly. (He and the nurse go out.) 
(nervously) Something--to say--to me? 
(in hard tones) So you finally acknowledged he is your son? I should think you would have kept on denying it, as you started out to do. 
It was for his sake--I denied it before. I was afraid--when he got well that it would hurt his chances--having people know what he had done. 
And what you had done. (a pause) Well? Are you satisfied? 
Satisfied?
Satisfied with your work by which you earned promotion? 
(wildly) Don't, Miss Olga, please! If you knew how I have suffered since they told me. They said before I went away that Tom would be all right--and I believed them, really I did, or I wouldn't have made the trip. And now--(raises handkerchief to his eyes) 
(cruelly) Your aim was better than you thought. 
Aim? (brokenly) I couldn't aim. I never had one of those things in my hand before, really I didn't; and I pointed it over his head. I never meant to fire. I meant to scare them--and then--it went off. (seeing the incredulous look on Olga's face) Oh, how can you think such a thing--that I could mean to shoot--Tom? He was the only one in the world I loved, the only one left to me--
(with cruel enjoyment of his anguish) You have your engines. 
Don't! I hate them, now. I have ever since. I will always hate them. It's all changed, now. 
When it's too late. 
I pointed it over his head! I didn't mean to fire it--I swear I didn't. (sobbing) Oh why can't someone believe me? Nobody does. They say yes but I feel they don't. Why don't you believe me? 
It doesn't matter much now whether you meant to fire or not. It's done--and it can't be undone! 
But the doctor said, with good care-there was hope. 
He says that but he knows it isn't so. There is no hope. Tom will be like that, like a child, for the rest of his life. 
(with an apprehensive glance at the bed) Sshh! He may hear you. 
(slowly) You forget--he can hear nothing now. 
No, no, it can't be true! (going to bed--pitifully) Tom! Tom! (But Tom's eyes are now closed.) 
(going over to bed quickly) Sshh! He is asleep! (They both lower their voices for the moment and come over by the window.) 
The doctor says he is getting stronger every day--physically. He will soon be able to leave.
Yes; he told me, too. 
(with a defiant look at Perkins) I shall take him out in the country some place where no one knows us—
(angrily) You--you will take him! 
Yes. 
Take him--away from me! 
Yes. You must realize that you have forfeited all right by--what you did. 
No! No! 
And you will be on ship. How could you look after him? 
I am leaving--the Company. 
You have not accepted the promotion? 
No. 
What will you do? 
I don't know. I hate the engines. I can't work with them any more. 
(with a frightened expression) Then you're going to live on shore? 
Yes; in the house I meant for him. I resolved on this during the last trip--when I found I hated the engines. They've promised me a position on shore. 
And you mean to take him with you? 
Yes. I have Mrs. Allen--
He hated her. 
--to keep house for me, and she will help to take care of him.
And I? 
You? (with a burst of angry grief) I wish he had never seen you. You are to blame for everything. It was you who got him in with the dynamite people. It was you who drove him to lead those men on strike. It's all your fault, all your fault! 
(defiantly) I love him. 
And don't his own father love him? 
You shot him! 
(wildly) I pointed it over his head! It was only to scare them. Oh, why can't anyone believe me? He was all I had to live for. You are young and I am over sixty. He is all I have in the world. I won't let you take him!
You must! He loved me, and not you. 
(wildly) It's a lie, a wicked lie! He did! He did! He was only a boy--and thoughtless--and you led him away from me--
(relentlessly) If he could choose, he would come with me. You know it. 
It's a lie, a lie! You can't have him. They know I'm his father. They won't let you have him. 
(realizing the truth of this--pleadingly) I will forget all--I will forgive all you have done to make my life miserable if you will let me take him. 
(touched in spite of himself) No, I can't. What would I have left to live for alone--with the memory of him. I couldn't stand it. 
I implore you, if you love him. You know he loved me. He must have told you. 
(in a whisper) Yes. He told me--once. 
You know it would be his wish to be with me if he could speak. 
You don't know what you're asking. You would rob me--of everything. I must bring him back to himself so he can forgive me. I must make up to him--for what I have done--as far as possible. 
I owe him reparation too, for my sin against him. You were right--when you said it was my fault--as well as yours. 
Ah, you admit it! 
He did follow where I led, but, oh, I never thought--I didn't realize the danger to him till it was too late. I didn't realize he was doing it only for me. (pleadingly) So you see I have my debt to pay back, my forgiveness to win. Let him come with me! 
No! It's impossible. You have no money, have you? 
I will work! 
And no home of your own? 
I will make one for him! 
You see? It's impossible. How would he get proper care? Who would look after him? 
(wildly--begging) Please, Mr. Perkins! You love him, you say; and you know he loved me. I cannot live without him. Would you kill me, too? 
(affected--raising the handkerchief to his eyes) It is too much for you to ask, Miss Olga. Haven't you any pity for me? No! He has met harm through being with you. 
(furiously) You dare to say that to me! And you shot him! Shot your own son in cold blood! Murderer! Murderer! 
(faintly) No, no! Not that name! I can't bear it! (sobbing) Won't you believe me? I pointed it over his head. 
And not content with killing him, you will kill his child! 
(stupidly) His child? What child? 
The child I will bear which is his, your son's. If you do not let me have Tom, I will kill it, I will never allow it to be born. I will kill my child as you have yours! (She leans against the table, nearly fainting.) 
(tremblingly) Dear God! You are going to have a child?--Tom's child? Did he know this before--
No--unless he guessed--that last night on the San Francisco--I tried to make him understand--why I had changed so--grown so weak and tender toward him--
(as if he didn't yet understand) My Tom's child! 
(pleadingly) Yes! The child of our love. You will not take its father away from me, will you? You cannot be as bad, as hard-hearted as that. 
(after a pause--hesitatingly) Do you--hate me so very much? 
I will hate you from the bottom of my soul if you take him away from me. But I will forgive you everything--I will even love you, as his father if you will let me take care of him. 
(slowly) I have hated you too, God forgive me, because I thought--you were to blame. (a slight pause) If I let you have him--will you bring him to my home--and live there--with me? 
Live--in your home? 
No one will ever know you were not married. We will say you were married over here. 
Your home! No, I couldn't, I couldn't.
You have no place to take him, you know--and I have the home I meant for him--for his wedding present. It will be his home and his child's. He has a right to come there--and you--
Give me time--to think. 
You have no money and you will not be able to work--soon. Who will take care of you and Tom--and the child--then? Please let me do it. It is my right, isn't it? When Tom knows--when he is in his right mind again--he might forgive--
(with deep sorrow) He will never be himself again! 
(obstinately) The doctor said there was still a hope--with good care. I will work on shore or on the ship--anything for him--and I won't bother you much if I am on ship. And Mrs. Allen will take care of you when--
Oh, this is good of you--but--
Please consent--if you don't hate me--too much. You are his wife, really. I know he loved you, and would have married you--if--if it wasn't for what I did. (Olga is silent--simply) It is settled, then. When he's strong enough we'll take him home together. 
(holding out her hand to Perkins) I am very grateful--and I know you love him--and I know you didn't mean--what happened. 
(taking her hand--humbly) Thank you so for believing that. You're the only one. (He gulps.) 
We'll take good care of him together, you and I, and we'll fight for that one hope the doctor held out. Who knows? It may be a real hope, after all. 
And do you think--when he gets back his mind--and knows--he'll forgive me? 
I'm sure he will forgive--both of us. 
I do hope and pray so, I do, indeed. (as an afterthought) And when he's all right again, you can be married, can't you? (Olga doesn't answer--Tom stirs in the bed and opens his eyes.) 
Look! He's awake again. He's looking at us. (They both go to the side of the bed.) 
(tenderly) Poor little child! (Tom reaches up and takes one of her hands.) See! He's taken my hand. (Tom holds his other hand out toward his father.) He wants to take yours. (Perkins puts his hand in Tom's. He and Olga look at each other  in wonder across the bed.) 
(in stifled tones) Tom! (to Olga) Do you sup pose--he understands. 
Yes, I feel sure he does. 
Then--he has forgiven me. 
He has forgiven us. (Tom lets both of their hands go and turns his eyes again to the ceiling.) 
(dabbing at his eyes with his handkerchief) I must go and tell the doctor what we have decided--if you'll excuse me. He wanted to know what arrangements I would make. 
Yes, you'd better tell him. 
I'll be right back, right back. (He goes to the door. In the doorway he nearly collides with Whitely, who enters as Perkins goes out.) 
(in a state of great excitement--pointing to the newspaper in his hand) See what they've done now! 
Who? 
The Germans--dropped bombs on an orphan asylum and killed twenty children! (then exultantly) But they've paid for it, the swine! The Russians have beaten them in a big battle in East Prussia. 
(amazed) And you are rejoicing over a Russian victory! 
(abashed) Anything to beat them. 
(scornfully) You'll enlist next. 
(flushing angrily) By God, if they keep on doing things like this--(slapping the newspaper) I will enlist! And so will every other red-blooded man. 
(with quiet scorn) Don't you know these stories are written just to make people like you enlist? 
(insisting) But this is true--vouched for by a person who was in the town and saw it. (a faint sound of music) Ssshh! Listen! (The strains of a far-off marching tune come through the open window. Whitely's face lights up.) Troops! Off for the front. (He hums the tune, beating time with his feet.) 
Poor sheep!
You'd understand--if it was your country engaged. 
Liberty--that is my country. 
Can't you see that these swine must be crushed, or--it's a case of eat or be eaten. The country must be defended. 
Every soldier in each one of the nations at war was called to arms to defend his country. 
(lamely) Our case is--well, it's right, you can't deny it. 
And each one thinks that. (a pause) So, as far as you are concerned, the social revolution can take care of itself, now when it needs you most! 
It's no time for it now. What's the use? Who would listen to you? This is the upheaval of everything. 
You might be true to our ideals. We have preached against war always. 
This is different, Olga. This is a just war, a war forced upon us. 
And each one of them thinks the same, poor fools! 
(angrily) How about most of the great Radical leaders? Socialist, Syndicalist, or Anarchist, here and in France and Russia? Haven't they all realized that this was no time to quibble over theories. 
Theories! 
Kropotkin, the great Communist? Hasn't he come out and said it was the duty of every man, no matter what he believes, to crush German militarism? I tell you we've got to back up the government until this war is won; and they're all doing it--Socialists, Syndicalists and all of them. 
Then they are all blind fools--or traitors. 
(irritably) I can't talk to you. You won't see. (after a pause, brutally) I shouldn't think you'd care much about the social revolution--now! 
(slowly) You mean--after it has ruined my life? (Whitely nods, a bit ashamed of what he has said. Olga's eyes flash.) Oh, you fool! You blind fool! What am I? What is my small happiness worth in the light of so great a struggle? We fight, and at times like the present, it seems hopelessly. We fight and we go down before the might of Society; but the Revolution marches on over our bodies. It moves forward though we may not see it. We are the bridge. Our sacrifice is never in vain. It is enough for us to know we are doing our small part, and that our little lives and little deaths count after all. No, let the others wave flags and cheer and forswear their faith. (proudly) I have suffered and will suffer more than any of them; and I am proud that I can still cry from the depths of my soul: It is well done! Long live the Revolution! (She stands proudly erect, inspired, exalted. Whitely is awed in spite of himself. And then--) 
(with a low, chuckling laugh--mimicking Olga) Long--live--the Revolution. (His vacant eyes turn from one to the other of them. A stupid smile plays about his loose lips. Whitely turns away with a shudder. Olga stares at the figure in the bed with fascinated horror--then covers her face with her hands as
The Curtain Falls)
