StD				Gold				
StD				ACT ONE 				
StD				SCENE--A small, barren coral island on the southern fringe of the Malay Archipelago. The coral sand, blazing white under the full glare of the sun, lifts in the right foreground to a long hummock a few feet above sea-level. A stunted coca palm rises from the center of this elevation, its bunch of scraggly leaves drooping motionlessly, casting a small circular patch of shadow directly beneath on the ground about the trunk. About a hundred yards in the distance the lagoon is seen, its vivid blue contrasting with the white coral beach which borders its circular outline. The far horizon to seaward is marked by a broad band of purplish haze which separates the bright blue of the water from the metallic gray-blue of the sky. The island bakes. The intensity of the sun's rays is flung back skyward in a quivering mist of heat-waves which distorts the outlines of things, giving the visible world an intangible eerie qual-ty, as if it were floating submerged in some colorless molten fluid. 				
BARTLETT	Captain	male	father	(uncovers his gray face on which there is now settling an expression of strange peace--stroking his daughter's hand) Sue--don't think hard o' me. (He takes the map.) An end to this! (He slowly tears it into small pieces, seeming to grow weaker and weaker as he does so. Finally as he lets the fragments filter through his fingers, his whole frame suddenly relaxes. He sighs, his eyes shut, and sags back in his chair, his head bent for-ward limply on his chest.) 	SUE	Girl	female	daughter
SUE	Girl	female	daughter	(alarmed) Pa! (She sinks to her knees beside him and looks up into his face.) Pa! Speak to me! It's Sue! (then turning toward her brother--terrifiedly) Nat! Run--get the doctor--(Nat starts to a sitting position. Sue tries with trembling hands to feel of her father's pulse, his heart--then begins to sob hysterically.) Oh, Nat--he's dead, I think--he's dead! 	BARTLETT	Captain	male	father
StD				(The Curtain Falls)				
